---
layout: post
title:  "Barclays women in markets"
categories: [Intern]
tags: [insem_opportunities]
image: assets/team_images_24/Isha Laddha.jpeg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

*By:* Isha Laddha

### Application:
It was a google form based application which was floated across webmail in October. They asked some personal info and Resume. Based in that they selected girls. 

### Experience: 
Around 10 girls were selected for the program and it was a one day visit to offices of Barclays, one in Worli and other in Goregaon. Early morning they has sent some luxurious cars to pick us up. They took us to their first office. We attended a session by the MD and COO of Barclays who was a women and told about her life story and entry in Barclays and guided us with a few insights on banking. Then we has an online session with a girl in a foreign office where she talked about how inclusive Barclays is for women and the diff perks it offers to them to support their career after marriage and kids. After which was a technical session where we were introduced to new terms on finance and asset classes. We were sent to the live trading floor to see how live trades were done in just a click and markets monitored on big PCs. Then we had lunch and went to the other office. There we were seated in a conference hall where we attended some online sessions by global leaders of Barclays in which they told their experience at Barclays and growth trajectory. There was also a live panel of 3 people who spoke about them and then answered the many finance related questions we had. We then were allowed to explore the floor and speak to many colleagues across Barclays Bank and understand what each kind of role entailed. That was a really nice experience to be able to look them work so closely. We had some snacks after that ans were sent back to our campus by 8. Overall a really nice experience and suitable for anyone who is even wanting to look at finance as a choice.
