---
layout: post
title: "HS200 - Environmental Studies"
categories: [human health, HS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ce102.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Krishnan Narayanan, Ratikanta Panda, Raile Ziipao

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
Purely from the content perspective, one of the easiest and highly non-technical courses in the institute. Provides a very interesting and inter-disciplinary take at the environmental crisis.

#### Time Commitment Required
Nothing except reading the slides a couple of days before the exam.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Diabolical grading for a supposedly chill course.  
18 AAs, 48 BBs, 70 BBs out of about 360 students.  
The AA cutoff was 41/50, but thereon, grades changed at almost every other score, so a score of 32 would get you a CC. Most of the people got a BC or a CC.

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
HS101 would be a prerequisite

#### Evaluation Scheme
Just the final exam

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Economics (Krishnan Narayanan): Economy-environment linkages, micro-economic as well as macro-economic issues pertaining to the environment, development strategies, environmental policy, operationalising sustainable development, eco-domestic product, approaches to economic-ecological modelling, economic instruments for environmental protection (charges, taxes, subsidies, liability rules, performance bonds etc.), asymmetric information and moral hazard  
  
Philosophy (Ratikanta Panda): Main branches of philosophy, environmental ethics, the revolt against nature, modern ethics, human-centrism, sanctity of life in Indian tradition, non-anthropocentrism  
  
Sociology (Raile Ziipao): Nested sustainable development, post-sustainable development, environmental issues in the Indian context, values, equity and social justice, environmental injustice, conflict over resources, case studies of environmental movements and their social impact (Chipko, Narmada Bachao Andolan, Silent Valley, Plachimada, LG Polymers, how Japan survived environmental degradation, organic agriculture in Cuba), Tragedy of the Commons, stable common pool resource management

#### Teaching Style
A mix of recorded videos and live sessions.  
Classes weren't that useful for economics or philosophy since the professors would either read the slides or go off on a tangent. For sociology however, the slides were insufficient, so it was important to have gone through the lectures before the exam.

#### Feedback on Exams
The endsem was a 50 MCQ exam, with 2 hours provided. Questions were picked out from the slides, but were often worded in a very tricky manner, especially for the sociology part.  
This caused very few students to score above 40.  
Several questions, however, were picked straight off the endsem paper of the previous half-semester offering, so it may be a good idea to look at past papers.

#### References Used
For the sociology part, the professor provides some recommended reading. A question or two can be expected from there.

#### Other Remarks
For the philosophy part, the professor asked a lot of quotes straight off the slides, so you may want to memorize "who said what".

*HS 200 Review By:* Aditya Iyengar