---
layout: post
title: "ME306 - Applied Thermodynamics"
categories: [acoustics, aerospace, automation, automotive, energy, thermodynamics / heat transfer, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME306.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Upendra Bhandarkar

#### Section
S2

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course builds upon the fundamentals of thermal and fluids learnt in the previous core courses and goes on at a slow pace, covering industrial implmentations of the field one by one. The content is very easy to grasp.

#### Time Commitment Required
Hardly more than a couple hours other than the lectures every week

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Relative grading, with most people getting a grade greater than or equal to BB. Almost 15% of the class got AA. For detailed stats, check ASC

#### Attendance Policy
We did not have an attendance policy earlier, but looking at the low Attendance, the professor set up an incentive based Attendance policy. Attending more than a certain fraction of the remaining classes got us bonus points.

#### Pre-requisites
ME209, ME219, ME346

#### Evaluation Scheme
6 Quizzes - 10% each, Endsem - 40%, with upto 6 bonus points based on Attendance

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Combustion, Otto and Diesel Cycles, Rankine cycle, Psychrometry, Refrigeration, Compressible Flows

#### Teaching Style
Live lectures with the professor using a writing app. The notes were quite detailed and self sufficient. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
There were tutorial sheets uploaded after every topic, with a quiz on the same topic the following week. The solutions to the tuts were discussed in an interactive manner in the class.

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes - Pretty chill, one long question on the topic recently covered.  
No midsem  
Endsem - 7 detailed questions on the 7 topics covered in the semester. We had to attempt any 5

#### Course Importance
Prepares you for industrial applications of thermal and fluid engineering. There are a lot of electives that can be taken up after this.

#### References Used
Moran and Shapiro

*ME 306 Review By:* Gagan Jain