---
layout: post
title: "ME226 - Mechanical Measurements"
categories: [mechanics, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/me226.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Atul Shrivastava

#### Section
S2

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
Easy to Moderate.

#### Time Commitment Required
Lectures hours and paying attention in tutorials should be enough.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading was fine.

#### Attendance Policy
No DX was given. So, no compulsory attendance was required. But, sir, used to have a class full of discussions, therefore, always advisable to attend the lectures. 

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
We had 2 quizzes, 5 assignments (1 project based + 4 tutorials), midsem and an endsem.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
1)Dynamic Characteristics of Measurement Systems  
– Revision of statistics  
– General structure of a measurement system  
– General input – output equation  
– Study of a first and second order system subjected to various inputs (step, ramp, impulse, sinusoidal)  
– Basic Fourier Series implementation  
  
2)Temperature Measurement: Thermocouples, thermometers, resistance temperature detectors etc.  
  
3)Pressure Measurement: Manometers, pressure gauges, diaphragms, Pitot tubes, etc.  
  
4)Flow Rate Measurement: Differential pressure devices (Orificemeters, Venturimeters, etc.), vortex flow meter, etc.  
  
5)Strain Gauge  
  
6)Data sampling and thin films

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The assignments were good. They were more like numerical solving sessions. The TA used to go through the problems and explain the solution properly.

#### Feedback on Exams
Midsem - It could be from easy to moderate. Questions were not difficult but lengthy. So, some of us faced time crunch.   
Endsem - Again, from moderate to easier side. This time the paper was not so lengthy.

#### Course Importance
Whether it is conducting experiments for R&D, or testing product quality in industry, measurements play a vital role in the life of a mechanical engineer. Also, designing an accurate, consistent measuring device is not as trivial a task as it sounds to be. Thus, this turns out to be a vital as well as an intriguing course.

#### References Used
1) Doebelin’s Measurement Systems by Ernest Doebelin and Dhanesh Manik  
2) Measurement Systems 5th Edition by Ernest Doebelin

*ME 226 Review By:* Shruti Singh