---
layout: post
title: "ME202 - Strength of Materials"
categories: [aerospace, automotive, computer aided design (cad), mechanics, structural analysis, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME202.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Amit Singh

#### Section
S1

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate.   
It's a basic course that builds upon the topics taught in ME 201

#### Time Commitment Required
Attending all the lectures and solving the homework problems provided a good way to keep track of the course. Around 6-7 hourse per week on an average (including the lectures of course)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Although the grading was a bit strict, it was fair, and a rather accurate representation of one's efforts towards the course

#### Attendance Policy
There was no attendance policy. However, there was a weekly quiz which counted towards the grades

#### Pre-requisites
ME201 is a pre requisite, but the professor explained the topics briefly anyway.

#### Evaluation Scheme
Quizzes: 20%  
Homework: 20%  
MidSem: 25%  
EndSem: 35%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Shear Stresses in Beams, Torsion of circular rods, Axisymmetric problems, Deflections in beams, Unsymmetrical bending of straight beams, Shear stresses in thin walled beams, Torsion in thin walled beams, Stresses and deflections in initially curved bars, Energy Methods (including PVW, Castigliano’s theorems), Elastic instability and buckling of beams

#### Teaching Style
The course was fairly straightforward, with a very well defined structure. Three hours of lectures + 1 quiz + 1 homework assignment per week.   
The professor ensured that every topic was covered right from the basics, and the classes were very well paced. In some cases where a topic might have required some prerequisite knowledge, ample time was usually present to catch up. Every lecture began with a nice recap, and the problems presented in the class were well structured. The slides provided were pretty exhaustive and the professor did not really go for the most stringent proctoring policies during the exams. Overall, this is a fundamental course which went pretty smoothly.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The homework problems were pretty exhaustive and they really helped with the course and provided weekly feedback regarding our progress

#### Feedback on Exams
The quizzes were fairly simple and straightforward.  
The midsems and endsems had a healthy mix of questions requiring direct application of things taught in the class and a few questions which required us to think on our own

#### Course Highlights
The slides made by the professor were a godsend. After watching the lecture once, there was no need to revisit them as the slides were really exhaustive. The theory was presented really well, and the problems had step wise solutions.

#### Course Importance
It's fairy important as it forms a base for a lot of advanced courses and concepts in solid mechanics. It gives theoretical as well as application skills for the same.

#### References Used
1) S.H. Crandell, M.C. Dahl and S.J. Lardner. An Introduction to the Mechanics of Solids, McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited, Third Edition, 2012.  
2) James M Gere; Barry J Goodno. Mechanics of materials, Cl-Engineering, 9th edition, 2017

*ME 202 Review By:* Suryansh Singh