---
layout: post
title: "MA214 - Numerical Analysis"
categories: [aerospace, artificial intelligence / machine learning, control systems, mechanics, robotics, MA]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ma214.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Saikat Mazumdar

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course was easy to understand but as the exams were not open notes, we had to remember many relations which made it tough. It being an online semester, we had no subjective papers, and objective papers were tougher to score in.

#### Time Commitment Required
An hour or two to go through the weekly tutorials

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
58-AA, 146-AB, 6-AP, 164-BB, 136-BC and total 642 students

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None needed

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Interpolation by polynomials, divided differences, error of the interpolating polynomial, piecewise linear and cubic spline interpolation.   
Numerical integration, composite rules, error formulae.   
Solution of a system of linear equations, implementation of Gaussian elimination and Gauss-seidel methods, LU factorization Cholesky’s method, ill-conditioning, norms.   
Solution of a nonlinear equation, bisection and secant methods.   
Newton’s method, rate of convergence, solution of a system of nonlinear equations, numerical solution of ordinary differential equations, Euler and Runge-Kutta methods, multi-step methods,

#### Teaching Style
Slides were informative and sufficient. Doubts would be cleared in class pretty well. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Tutorials had good difficulty and must be tried once before each tutorial session. No assignments and projects.

#### Feedback on Exams
All exams had the same objective style with different weightage.  
Quizzes were short in terms of number of questions and time limit. Midsem had paper 1 and paper 2, the same with Endsem.

#### Course Importance
Very important as numerical analysis is needed for any basic implementation and is used in every field. 

#### References Used
e.suli, d.mayers An Introduction to Numerical Analysis  
k.e.atkinson An Introduction to Numerical Analysis

*MA 214 Review By:* Hiya Gada