---
layout: post
title: "ME338 - Manufacturing Processes II"
categories: [design, manufacturing and additive manufacturing, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME338.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Soham Mujumdar

#### Section
S4

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Medium

#### Time Commitment Required
2-3 hours per week of self study + course project (which required quite a lot of time)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
No pre defined policy as such but the stats were poor.  
From a batch of around 45 students, 2 students got AA with around 8-9 ABs and 9- 10 BBs. So with a decent amount of effort one could score AB and BB.

#### Attendance Policy
Zero attendance policy, but kept quizzes during class time. The quizzes were pre announced and attending the classes was not compulsory for giving the quiz. But honestly the professor was very good and attending live lectures was very useful.

#### Pre-requisites
Compulsory Core Course

#### Evaluation Scheme
15 % Assignments - 3 homeworks of 5 % each  
15 % Quizzes - 10 biweekly quizzes out of which best 6-7 were chosen  
10 % Project  
60 % End sem

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Material Removal Processes: Mechanics of Machining, tool geometry and materials, chip formation, tool temperature, tool wear, tool life, surface finish, machinability.  
Optimization of machining processes.   
Machine Tools: Generation of surfaces by machining, basic operations on shaping, slotting and planning machines, lathe, drilling and boring machines and grinding machines.   
Process Parameters and setups.   
Production Machines: Capstan and turret lathes, automats, broaching machines, centreless grinding machines. Special purpose machines for thread cutting and gear cutting (hobbing and shaping). Finishing processes honing, laping burnishing and deburring.   
Introduction to modern machining processes: EDM, ECM, LASER, Jigs and fixtures, principles of location and clamping, synthesis of simple jigs and fixtures.   
Principles of assembly engineering, theory of dimensional chains, fully interchangeable and selective assembly. Introduction to Numerical Control.

#### Teaching Style
Everything was done on MS Teams and prof took maximum effort so that students participate in the course. He always valued students' opinions and did it whatever he could do on his part to make things easier for the students.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments needed some sincere effort.

#### Feedback on Exams
No midsem.  
Quizzes were a bit tough, but endsem was very easy if one had watched all the lectures.

*ME 338 Review By:* Hitansh Chandra