---
layout: post
title: "ME221 - Structural Materials"
categories: [composites, design, manufacturing and additive manufacturing, structural analysis, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/me221.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Amol Anant Gokhale

#### Section
S3

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Not difficult at all. Lot of theory content. Few numerical type concepts

#### Time Commitment Required
Low but regular HWs are given

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading was slightly below average. Not many AAs were given. Around 4-5 out of 60

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
Solid state from JEE will help in the initial part of the course

#### Evaluation Scheme
10% HWs = 0.5% * 20   
10% each quizzes, 2 quizzes were taken  
20% midsem  
50% endsem (as offline endsem was expected, might change for offline)

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Internal structure of materials  
Effects of different working - cold working, forging, etc  
Faults in structure  
Iron-Carbon diagram

#### Teaching Style
Live classes during class hours which were recorded. I felt the teaching was quite good. The prof has a slow-decent pace (perfect in 2x). Concepts were explained very cleary. Course contents were interesting even though theoretical.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments are given after every lecture which are due in 1 week. Very small assignments with 4-5 ques which have answers within the slides. Very helpful to stay updated with the rest of the class. Help a lot for your preparation. Have 0.5% weightage each.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were moderate. Theory and numericals have equal weight. Correction was quite strict.

#### Course Importance
Introductory course for composites and basic metallurgy.

*ME 221 Review By:* A.Vikram