---
layout: post
title: "ME338 - Manufacturing Processes II"
categories: [design, manufacturing and additive manufacturing, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME338.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Deepak Marla

#### Section
S1

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Course content itself was not difficult. However there were a lot of topics to be covered which made it tough. The course is divided into around 13 sub topics which basically included different types of manufacturing processes.  
Particularly for Prof Marla's section, the difficulty of the course increases because of quizzes, term paper, group project and assignments. Hence, one has to continuously be in touch with the contents, this is not a course which you can study for 3 days before the exams.

#### Time Commitment Required
High time commitment required. We had mini quizzes almost every class. However, we gave feedback which was well acknowledged and this component of evaluation might be subject to change.  
As mentioned, due to term paper, assignments, and group project this course requires a lot of time commitment.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Poor. 9/166 AAs. However ABs and BBs were high as a consequence.  
The silver lining is that there is uniformity in grading throughout sections.

#### Attendance Policy
Due to online mode of instruction, attendance was not made compulsory.

#### Pre-requisites
Only prerequisite as per my knowledge would be the relevant core courses i.e., Manufacturing Processes I and Structural Materials.

#### Evaluation Scheme
10% quizzes  
10% assignment  
10% term paper  
20% group project  
50% endsem

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Spends a lot of time in machining. Moves on to laser processing, additive, electrochemical machining, electric discharge machining, ion beam, abrasive machining, ultrasonic, water jet and finally metrology and electronics manufacturing.

#### Teaching Style
Prof Marla is a bit strict, but he does acknowledge feedback given to him. Teaching was ok. We had normal online classes in the slots. Lectures were recorded.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The effort does not match the weight-age in this course. You might spend a lot of time for very less weight-age (term paper, project). Assignments were easy. Project was also not extremely intellectually stimulating and marking was generous.  
Mini quizzes were the biggest pain. They were also not announced, although we assumed there would be one every class. Due to quizzes, we ended up spending half hour more every class.

#### Other Remarks
You can ace the course provided you are thorough and regular (and ofc the grading is generous). There was nothing extremely hard, just continuous effort is required.

*ME 338 Review By:* Arjun Kulshrestha