---
layout: post
title: "ME219 - Fluid Mechanics"
categories: [fluid mechanics / dynamics, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/me219.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Abhilash J. Chandy

#### Section
S1

#### Semester
Autumn 2019-20

#### Course Difficulty
Easy to moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
About 3 hours/week (apart from classes)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading Policy: Absolute but alterable (depending on difficulty)  
Statistics: Decent. A bit towards the lenient side 

#### Attendance Policy
No mandatory attendance but attendance was noted for records (or grade consideration for students missing a grade very close to cutoff)

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites

#### Evaluation Scheme
Quizzes - 25% (weekly quizzes, best of (n-1))  
Midsem exam - 30%  
Endsem exam - 45%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Basic definitions, hydrostatics, fluid kinematics, integral & differential approach to solve fluid equations, dimensional analysis, Internal flows, external flows, compressible flows

#### Teaching Style
Teaching aligns with the slides but blackboard problem /equation solving and classroom discussions are important. Teaching is slightly mathematical based and lesser concept based with just the right pace. Lectures are exhaustive and everything is explained well.

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes are short and mostly easy  
Midsem is easy and based on basic understanding  
Endsem was moderate on difficulty. All topics were covered.

#### References Used
1. Fundamentals of fluid mechanics, Munson, Young et al.   
2. Fluid mechanics, F. M. White

#### Other Remarks
Understanding the concepts is the key to scoring well in this course. Frequent evaluations will automatically maintain regularity.

*ME 219 Review By:* Prasann Jaiswal