---
layout: post
title: "ME316 - Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines"
categories: [automation, automotive, design, mechanics, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME316.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sripriya Ramamoorthy

#### Section
S2

#### Semester
Spring 2020-21

#### Course Difficulty
Moderately Easy

#### Time Commitment Required
2-2.5 hours per week (apart from classes)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Relative grading. Policy not explicitly revealed. Grading statistics are decent but no. of AAs are a bit on the lower side.

#### Attendance Policy
No mandatory attendance. In-class graded tutorials once a fortnight.

#### Pre-requisites
Flair in JEE mechanics

#### Evaluation Scheme
Grading Policy: 10% graded tutorials (once in 14 days): Best of (n-2) or (n-1)  
                            20% quizzes (once in 14 days): Best of (n-2) or (n-1)  
                            30% Midsem  
                            40% Endsem (Full syllabus)

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Particle Kinematics, Energetics, Mechanisms: types, analysis, kinematics & rigid body dynamics, Cam Follower, Gears, Geometric and analytical methods of solving kinematic/dynamic mechanics problems, Vibration analysis (one of more degrees of freedom), vibrations in a string 

#### Teaching Style
Live lectures, teaching completely based on the slides. Slides are quite exhaustive. Teaching might seem somewhat monotonous (just explaining or sometimes reading out slides because the content is pretty much completely covered in them).

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Frequency of graded tutorials is just right. Difficult to wrap up in the time limit though (lengthy).

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes are of moderate difficulty but time-taking (lengthy)  
Midsem and endsem are on the easier side

#### Other Remarks
Being regular is the key to sail smoothly and get a very good grade in the course

*ME 316 Review By:* Prasann Jaiswal