---
layout: post
title: "EE101 - Introduction to Electrical and Electronics Circuits"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/EE101.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Vivek Agrawal

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Course was conceptually a little difficult to understand, as it was only an introductory course and could not dive into the details of each topic. Still, attending or watching lectures helped understand the overall picture of each subtopic. From an exam point of view one can score well if they pay attention in the tutorials and understand the solutions properly.

#### Time Commitment Required
Apart from attending lectures and tutorials (which were held in lecture hours), an hour or two a week should suffice to go through the tutorial problems and solutions. They would also give frequent assignments which took quite a bit of time. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Generous grading policy. Lenient grading in assignments and exams as long as the method in the answer was properly followed according to the tutorial problems. 

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites. However knowledge of electronic components, signals, and circuit diagrams (KVL & KCL) would help. 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Introduction, basic physical laws, circuit elements, KVL, KCL, and a few important circuit theorems, simple circuits, Transients in R-L, R-C, R-L-C, Sinusoidal Steady State, Functional Characteristics of Diode, BJT, OP-AMP. Analog circuit Examples: rectifiers, amplifiers, oscillators etc. Digital Circuits: AND/OR gates, Flip Flops, DAC/ADC etc.

#### Teaching Style
Lectures and Tutorials

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Moderate to difficult assignments. No projects.

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes, Midsemester and Endsem exams were moderate. 

#### Course Importance
Important in any course where electrical circuits and electronics are used.

#### References Used
incent Del Toro, `Electrical Engineering Fundamental, Prentice Hall, 1989  
K.A.Krishnamurthy and M.R.Raghuveer, `Electrical and Electronics Engineering for Scientists', Wiley Eastern Ltd., 1993.

*Review By:* Hiya Gada