---
layout: post
title: "ME346 - Heat Transfer"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME346.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
S.V. Prabhu

#### Section
S2

#### Semester
Autumn 21

#### Course Difficulty
Difficult, because of the grading scheme, not so much because of the course content. The professor gave very less weightage for steps and in the instance of the final answer being wrong, only a maximum of 40-50% of the weightage of that question was given, regardless of the magnitude of the mistake

#### Time Commitment Required
3-4 hrs per week apart from lectures. Diligence in class is necessary for good performance.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
40% quizzes (5-6 bi-weekly, with all being counted in the weightage) 25% midsem, 35% endsem. Fairly reasonable grades given.

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
Being comfortable with Fluid Mechanics (ME219) course content will be greatly beneficial

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Covers the topics in the following order: Conduction, Convection, Heat Exchangers, Radiation, Natural Convection. Reference book used: Cengel.

#### Teaching Style
Online live lectures, good teaching style with emphasis on writing things down. Comprehensive notes and slides.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were highly time constrained. Absurd examination style followed in the endsem, with each question having a time limit (6 questions each having 30 mins duration, with scanning and submitting 6 times in the whole 4 hr duration), which caused great difficulty to several students.

*Review By:* Soham Purohit
