---
layout: post
title: "ME219 - Fluid Mechanics"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME219.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof Neeraj Kumbhkarna 

#### Section
S3

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course as a whole is very chill, doable in one night :p. Most of the course is purely basic JEE concepts - hydrostatic pressure, Bernoulli's equation. Newer concepts like Navier Stoke Equation are introduced in the later classes but are easy to get the hang of. 

#### Time Commitment Required
Not a lot of time commitment is required, which is surprising considering it's an 8 credit course. There are no quizzes or a midsem, just a 40% weightage endsem and Lecture and tut quizzes. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading was very chill with most people getting AAs and ABs. 

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy was followed as such but sir held 2 quizzes every lectures on moodle which accounts for 20% of your grade and the tut quizzes on moodle account for 40% of your grade. 

#### Evaluation Scheme
20% - Lecture Quizzes  
40% - Tutorial Quizzes  
40% - Endsem

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Hydrostatics, Bernoulli's Equation, Laminar and Turbulent Flow, Reynold's Number, Viscosity, Navier Stokes Equation 

#### Teaching Style
The prof took lectures online on MS Teams and quizzes were taken at random times on moodle based on the concepts taught in that lecture. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Tut and Lecture quizzes were very easy, with the prof covering similar questions in the class itself. 

#### Feedback on Exams
Endsem was very easy with people easily scoring >35 marks out of 40

#### Course Highlights
Na

#### Course Importance
Core Course so not much to say 

#### References Used
Lecture slides more than covered the syllabus 

*Review By:* Manav Doshi 