---
layout: post
title: "ME232 - Kinematics and Dynamics of Machines"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME316.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor

Amit Singh

#### Section

4th

#### Semester

Spring '23

#### Course Difficulty

3 out of 5

#### Time Commitment Required

3 hours per week

#### Grading Policy and Statistics

More than 38% of the class got an AB and above.

#### Attendance Policy

Once in a week surprise attendance. There was no penalty for low attendance, although there were bonus marks for the attendance. More than 90% fetched you two marks and more than 95% fetched you three marks.

#### Pre-requisites

None

#### Evaluation Scheme

A lot of emphasis was given on assignments and projects. We had 4 home works spead across the semester along with a computational project towards the end. The homeworks each carried 1.25% weightage, while the project carried 10% weightage. The homework and the project both were relevant to what was being taught in class as well what was asked in the quizzes and exams.

#### Teaching Style

Three lectures a week, each one hour long. The professor taught from the slides he provided us on moodle. It was a little theory and majorly numericals.

#### Course Importance

Very relevant and important course. As mentioned sets the foundation of physics of links and robotics in general. Attend all the lectures and study regularly, even if its an 40 mins a day. It will ease the presssure.

#### Going Forward

This is an introductory course into robotics and hence would set a foundation for it.

_Review By:_ Yash Tangri
