---
layout: post
title: "ME223 - Solid Mechanics and Strength of Materials"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Core/ME202.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
D.N. Pawaskar

#### Semester

3rd

#### Course Difficulty

Moderate, the difficulty increases in the latter half

#### Time Commitment Required

As the course is a combination of ME201 and ME202, it will require more time compared to other core courses. Particularly, post midsem, one would need to devote additional hours.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics

AA 7, AB 16 in a class of strength 76, Prof had given assured cut-offs for grades in the first lecture itself: AA >=95%, AB>=85%, BB >=755% and so on

#### Attendance Policy

No compulsory attendance. Tutorials were optional, but could be used to top up exam score upto 100% (10 tutorials each of 1%)

#### Pre-requisites

None

#### Teaching Style

Easy to follow. Prof encouraged students to ask any doubts during the class

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects

1hr of Tutorial per week, tutorial sheets were to be handed in, discussions were encouraged while solving. Quizzes and exams were heavily based on tutorials, so would highly recommend to solve them.

#### Course Importance

The course covers a lot of new concepts such as theories of failure, flexure, buckling and 2D Boundary Value Problems. Thus, it forms the basis of a lot of future courses.

#### Going Forward

ME423 Mechine Design, ME601 Stress Analysis, ME602 Fatigue, fracture & Failure Analysis

#### Other Remarks

Mechanics of Materials by Gere & Goodno is recommended for reference

_Review By:_ Siddhi Deshpande
