---
layout: post
title: "CS228 - Logic for Computer Science"
categories: [minors, artificial intelligence / machine learning, CS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/CS228.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Krishna S.

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
 Moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
Moderate

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
AA	5  
AB	12  
BB	20  
BC	32  
CC	8  
DD	2  
Total	79  


#### Attendance Policy
No mandatory attendance required

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
There were 8 short quizzes that were held on Moodle(which comprised of 10% weightage),4 assignments and 4 subsequent peer reviews for the assignments (which comprised of 20% ),Midsem+Endsem(70%).

#### Topics Covered in the Course
1.Introduction to Propositional Logic  
2. Rules for Natural Deduction and Proof Engines  
3. Soundness and Completeness of Propositional Logic  
4. Normal Forms, Horn Algorithm and Resolution  
5. Introduction to First Order Logic  
6. First Order Logic for Languages  
7. Deterministic Finite State Automata (DFA)  
8. Nondeterministic Finite State Automata (NFA)  
9.Conjunctive normal forms, satisfiability and validity of propositional formulae  
10.Horn clauses and satisfiability  
11.Resolution  
12. Monadic Second Order (MSO) Logic  
13. MSO on Words  
14. Transition Systems and Linear Temporal Logic (LTL)  
15. Infinite Words and Buchi Automata (DBA and NBA)  
16. LTL Model Checking  
17. Generalized NBA and LTL Model Checking Complexity  


#### Teaching Style
Lectures were made available on the YouTube channel made by the prof for the course. Doubt/Discussions sessions were held every Wednesday and tutorials sessions were held on Fridays. Excellent lecture slides were also  made available by the instructor which were used in the YouTube lectures . The professor’s teaching style was easy to understand, and the material covered was quite interesting and intellectually stimulating. The lectures were, for the most part, evenly paced. The professor encouraged doubts and always cleared them up quite effectively.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
 I found the tutorial problems very intriguing. We were given the problems beforehand and encouraged to solve them before the session, where they were discussed in detail.

#### Feedback on Exams
The examinations were neither too easy nor too hard. Solving the tutorials and following the lecture slides did help a lot . 

#### References Used
Lectures slides and video lectures were enough.  
For additional reading Books suggested by prof were:   
1.LOGIC IN COMPUTER SCIENCE ~~by MICHAEL HUTH, MARK RYAN  
2.Applied Automata Theory ~~Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Thomas, RWTH Aachen  
3.Principles of Model Checking ~~Christel Baier and Joost-Pieter Katoen  


*CS 228 Review By:* Arpit Tiwari