---
layout: post
title: "DE414 - Innovation by Design"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, design, DE]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/DE414.jpeg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Battula K Chakravarthy

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Very chill course, but some sincere effort was needed in the final project submission.

#### Time Commitment Required
There was a very easy midsem exam for which a maximum of 4-5 hours were required. Apart from this the final project required some effort. But professor was very generous and gave everyone enough time after the endsems and also helped everyone a lot. So this course would hardly affect your other courses in the semester.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
There wasn't any well defined grading policy, but the stats were amazing.  
277 people had registered for the course.  
AA	176  
AB	85  
BB	7  
BC	5  
CC	4

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy as such, but sometimes there were bonus marks for attendance.

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites. No prior knowledge was required.

#### Evaluation Scheme
Approximately 70-80% weightage was given for project, 20-30% for the midsem and rest of the marks were for assignments/attendance(bonus)

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Real life examples of innovations in design making life of humans easier at various places. And the part which I didn't find very interesting was some theory content related to sociology but that was not much relevant for the evaluation part of the course.

#### Teaching Style
Everything was conveyed through the CR and on webmail. Live lectures were taken on zoom.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
There were 2 easy assignments that hardly required any effort.  
But there was a team project that required a very sincere effort.

#### Feedback on Exams
Easy midsem.  
No quizzes and endsem.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Wanted to try design, and this was one of the basic course + easy grading so went forward with this.

#### Course Importance
Very useful if you are interested in the field of design.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If interested in the field of design then you can definitely go for this course. Otherwise people usually take it for amazing grading statistics.

#### When to take this course?
I took this course in my 5th semester. You can take this course in any semester as it wont be a burden on other courses.

*DE 414 Review By:* Hitansh Chandra