---
layout: post
title: "HS457 - Managerial Economics"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, economics, finance and management, HS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/HS457.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Surajit Bhattacharya

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
The course is fairly dfficult, and requires you to spend time understanding concepts extremely well if you want to score in exams.

#### Time Commitment Required
As long as you attend all classes, about 5-6 hours each week should be enough.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Statistics are historically terrible, and he makes this clear before the adjustment deadline. He makes it very clear that if you are doing the course for a grade, drop it. 

#### Attendance Policy
The professor expects 100% attendance, barring cases of being sick (pink slip required) or cases where you take leave, which he must approve before hand.

#### Pre-requisites
HS101

#### Evaluation Scheme
There were several assignments, a quiz, and a midsem in the time we took the course.  
Quiz 1 - 15%  
Midsem - 30-35% (not sure)  
The remaining evaluation was done through assignments, which continued into the "summer", as the semester was cut short. 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The course is essentially HS101 on steroids. It includes very in-depth analysis of micro and macro economics, and derives all results we got in HS101 from more fundamental assumptions. 

#### Teaching Style
The professor is very very invested in the students' learning, and keeps sharing relevant information about things happening in the world. He also clearly spends a lot of time preparing the content, and knows all the content really well. He gives very detailed feedback on exams, and expects students to know concepts really well

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Would definitely recommend as an ALC, if you are interested in Economics.

*HS 457 Review By:* Chaitanya Johari