---
layout: post
title: "EE204 - Analog Circuits"
categories: [dept electives, insti electives, minors, alc, acoustics, EE]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/EE204.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Shalabh Gupta

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate. Requires effort to be put in by students and self study.

#### Time Commitment Required
Class time and 2 hours per week.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
As, I took it under a minor course, grading in my section was pretty average and not very harsh.

#### Attendance Policy
For us, regular class quizzes on SAFE was taken which had a good weightage.

#### Pre-requisites
Basics about transistors would help. If you have taken Electronics in your 11th-12th standard, this course should go very smooth for you.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The official content is here: https://www.ee.iitb.ac.in/web/academics/courses#EE204. It is followed more or less with little content edged off due to time constraints. The course, broadly, can be divided into following modules:  
  
The course will surely cover Operational Amplifiers, Frequency Response, Feedback, Filters, and non-linear devices like diodes, oscillators and MOSFETs. 

#### Motivation for taking this course
The motivation of the course is that a student, at the end should :  
  
Design and understand OPAMP and OPAMP based circuits with ease  
Understand the capacitances involved with transistors and building various ckt representations, In-depth understanding of various amplifiers  
Understand the various aspects of analog circuit design like feedback, frequency response, bode plots, stability criterias  
Design and understand oscillators and active filters  
More than this the course has many faces and introduces one to the broad aspects of practical electrical engg knowledge.  
Course content and Structure:

#### References Used
MICROELECTRONIC CIRCUITS by Sedra, Smith and Chandorkar is concise book for the course, specifically if you believe in self study and not lectures.

*EE 204 Review By:* Shruti Singh