---
layout: post
title: "HS303 - Psychology"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, hss electives, liberal arts, HS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/HS303.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof Azizuddin Khan

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
Studying for a few days before exams may suffice. Extra effort is required for an AA.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading is moderate, typical of any HS elective. Grading is more or less absolute.

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy was imposed, the semester being online

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
2 Quizzes, 1 Endsem, 1 Assignment. Quizzes and Endsem were all MCQ based with no negative marking

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Introduction to Psychology, Sensation and Perception, Learning, Memory, Motivation and Emotion, Language.

#### Teaching Style
Classes were informative and fun. The instructor used various examples to explain a concept. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignment is pretty simple. There were no tutorials or projects.

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes and Endsem were both MCQ based with a good mix of theoretical and application-based questions. The time is sufficient to attempt all the questions.   


#### Motivation for taking this course
Psychology has some very interesting applications in our day to day life including dealing with stress, how memory works.  
This intrigued me and was enough for me to register for the course.

#### Course Importance
The content is great to know and offers one new perspectives on daily activities.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If anyone is interested in knowing why people behave and feel the way they do, this course is a good starting point.

#### When to take this course?
For most of the departments, 5th semester is when HS electives are supposed to be taken.

#### References Used
Slides and Morgan, C.T., King, R.A., Weiss, J.R., & Schopler, J., Introduction to Psychology (VIIth Ed.), New York: McGraw-Hill, 1986

#### Other Remarks
The concepts are often overlapping and it is fairly easy to get confused on what's what. A thorough understanding of the content is essential since exams are application-based

*HS 303 Review By:* Samyak Shah