---
layout: post
title: "CE324 - Engineering Law"
categories: [insti electives, alc, law, CE]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/CE324.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Milind Wankhede

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
Quite chill, a very different kind of course, so it's quite tough to compare with regular engineering courses.

#### Time Commitment Required
Not more than an hour a week in addition to regular lectures.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Exams are quite high-scoring, so it may be difficult to get an AA. With very minimal effort one can end up with a grade >= BB.  
13 AAs, 10 ABs and 20 BBs out of 90.

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Midsem - 30%  
Endsem - 50%  
Mock Arbitration - 20%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The Indian Contract Act, 1872  
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996

#### Teaching Style
Classes were live on Microsoft Teams, the professor would explain the sections with real world cases. Lectures were interesting and certainly worth attending.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The mock arbitration is a novel idea. Pre-assigned groups of six were assigned a real-world case and had to don the hat of a defendant, respondent or an arbitrator. While this would've been more fun offline, it was still quite engaging in the online mode. It gave a brief idea of how legal arguments need to be posed.

#### Feedback on Exams
The exams were based on interpretation of various sections. This may involve a fair bit of memory, but the professor is very considerate and provides a list of sections from where questions will be asked, as well as model question papers. This makes it a lot easier than it would've been otherwise.

#### Motivation for taking this course
To try something different, a Law course at IITB, whoever thought about that!

#### Course Importance
Not really relevant to anything else in the institute, just a fun glimpse of what law is all about.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Very strongly, it provides a very different experience compared to any other course you would ever take at IITB!

#### When to take this course?
6th Semester. The course runs every semester, so you can take it anytime, no particular preference!

#### Going Forward
Nothing really, although the professor does offer some BTP topics for further study.

#### References Used
www.indiacode.nic.in contains all the required sections and acts

*CE 324 Review By:* Aditya Iyengar