---
layout: post
title: "SC607 - Optimization"
categories: [dept electives, insti electives, minors, alc, aerospace, automotive, composites, control systems, manufacturing and additive manufacturing, robotics, SC]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/SC607.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Ankur Kulkarni

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course was decent at the beginning and became very difficult towards the end

#### Time Commitment Required
Apart from class timings, maybe an hour or two in a week for general revision

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
AA-1, AB-4, BB-12 out of total 55 students

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Presentation: 20%  
Homeworks/assignments: 40%  
Final exam/project: 40%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Convex analysis and review of real analysis  
Optimization in Euclidean space: linear programming, duality, convex optimization, constrained optimization and KKT conditions, geometric theory of duality (Lagrangian, Fenchel duality)  
Algorithms for optimization in Euclidean space  
Nonconvex optimization  
Discrete optimization, brief overview of complexity theory towards an appreciation of “hard” and “easy” problems.

#### Teaching Style
In Every class, students in groups of 3 would give a presentation and briefly explain the topics that were covered in the pre-recorded lectures (available on CDEEP). You can choose not to attend and instead spend the time watching the lectures. Doubts were covered in class. No tutorials.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments were multiple choice and usually hard. 

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were also multiple choice and usually harder than assignments.

#### Motivation for taking this course
This is a really good course if you like math. It covers a lot of material related to optimization and is widely used in robotics. 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Would recommend it strongly if you enjoy math.

#### When to take this course?
Fourth semester, as an ALC. Any semester is ideal for this course. 

#### Going Forward
Robotics, structural optimization (Shape and Topology Optimization), Optimal controls

*SC 607 Review By:* Hiya Gada