---
layout: post
title: "CS753 - Automatic Speech Recognition"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, artificial intelligence / machine learning, CS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/CS753.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof Preethi Jyothi

#### Semester
Spring' 21

#### Course Difficulty
Difficult

#### Time Commitment Required
High, one needs to be in constant touch with the material since the pace is high; it is easy to lose track

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Pretty lenient, typical of any CS 6xx or 7xx course

#### Attendance Policy
Class Participation has a 5% weightage. Students had to attempt weekly Moodle quizzes for it.

#### Pre-requisites
Linear Algebra, Python and a formal course on Machine Learning (in the institute)

#### Evaluation Scheme
Class Participation 5%  
3 Assignments 40%  
Endsem 35%   
Project 20%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
HMM models, WFSTs, Neural Network based Acoustic models, RNNs and Language models, Feature analysis, End-to-end architecture, Search and Decoding

#### Teaching Style
The professor is very proactive in the classroom. Takes doubts and clears them very well. Ample material and reading material is provided for beteer understanding

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments are moderate to difficult and require a lot of time to solve. The project is supposed to be any topic related to ASR but should be advanced or non-trivial enough. Intoductory ML course projects are discouraged.

#### Feedback on Exams
The Weekly Quizzes are pretty simple given that one is attentive in class.   
Endsem is open-book, majority of the questions target the students' conceptual understanding.

#### Motivation for taking this course
I always had the wish to learn how ASR systems like Alexa and Siri work. I had heard the professor taught very well.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Highly recommended

#### When to take this course?
Semester 6. Any semester third year onwards is good provided you have done the prerequisites

#### Going Forward
This course open up opportunities in the field of Automatic Speech Recognition, one can uderstand the latest research going on and participate in it too!

#### References Used
Slides and specific papers and textbook chapters which are mentioned at the end of each lecture

*CS 753 Review By:* Samyak Shah