---
layout: post
title: "ME761 - Advanced Stereology and Microstructural Analysis"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME761.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Asim Tewari

#### Semester
Spring' 21

#### Course Difficulty
The derivations and equations are a bit involved but can be understood by being attentive in class. The course requires problem solving skills with a logical application of concepts which are not too many. The questions asked in the exam are fairly difficult.

#### Time Commitment Required
2 hours of weekly self study will sufice

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
The grading was lenient with most of the students getting AAs and ABs. The marks were never revealed and no cribs happened for us.

#### Attendance Policy
5 marks for attendance

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Coding Assignments, class attendance, Midsem and Endsem 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Teaches methods to make estimation of parameters like volume fraction, area fractions, etc. The course provides insights into sampling and getting values from the sample data, be it in the form of image, or line probes and to efficiently use them. The course includes use of various types of distributions, 3D vectors and sampling methods to arrive at efficient formulae to derive a quantity with the given data. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Coding assignments were fairly easy

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were quite tricky and difficult to answer without a thorough understanding of the course content

#### Motivation for taking this course
To explore the quantitative side of materials science

*Review By:* Gourav Chopra