---
layout: post
title: "ME409 - Intelligent Manufacturing Systems Lab"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME409.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor

Sushil Mishra, Deepak Marla, Soham Mujumdar, SS Pande, Asim Tewari

#### Semester

Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty

This is a lab course compulsory for students in CIM specialisation of Mechanical Dual Degree Programme. It consisted of 10 lab sessions (2 by each of the 5 profs) in total along with report/assignment submission corresponding to each session with suitable deadlines. 4 out of the 10 lab sessions (by Prof Deepak Marla and Prof SS Pande) also involved viva-voce examination.

The course difficulty is towards the easier side but it requires significant time and effort almost every week. There were no written examinations but the submissions were scrutinised extensively.

#### Time Commitment Required

Depending on the professor and your skill in their project domain, the course requires 4-6 hours every week apart from the lab slot timings.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics

Grading is decent and slightly towards the lenient side. You might have to stand out to get an AA but if you complete all your submissions timely and don't mess up your viva, you can get an AB easily.

4 AAs and 9 ABs among 23 students in online mode.

#### Attendance Policy

Since it is a lab course, maintaining full attendance is compulsory.

#### Pre-requisites

Basic coding skills (CS101 level)  
Everything else needed is taught via detailed video tutorials

#### Evaluation Scheme

Short quizzes (for 2 lab sessions by Prof Sushil Mishra. Duration: 30 mins each)  
No midsem  
No endsem  
Only lab report submissions/assignments and viva

#### Topics Covered in the Course

Orthogonal Machining simulation, Micro-endmilling simulation, Laser heating simulation

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?

Highly recommended for those interested in manufacturing and related simulations

#### When to take this course?

7th semester

#### Other Remarks

Please make sure to ask the course instructor (preferably Prof Soham Mujumdar) before taking the coure if you are not a Mechanical DD CIM student about if you can take this course or not.

_Review By:_ Prasann Jaiswal
