---
layout: post
title: "ME661 - Advanced Thermodynamics & Combustion"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME661.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sandip Kumar Saha

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
The course begins from basic topics in thermodynamics and extends to more difficult ones (e.g. Fugacity). The lecture videos should be viewed diligently, or else one might miss some key concepts. The lecture videos themselves are not extensive, thus for problem-solving, one has to pursue other means, such as YouTube videos, previous year GATE papers, etc. Way too many platforms (Google Meet, Webex, SAFE, Codetantra, Moodle) were used to take exams, which might lead to some confusion. Thus overall, a considerable amount of effort is required.

#### Time Commitment Required
Considerable time commitment is required apart from the lecture hours, owing to the "flipped" nature of lectures. The quizzes were also not taken during the designated lecture hours.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
AA	7  
AB	4  
AU	1  
BB	17  
BC	19  
CC	9  
CD	3  
DD	3  
FR	4  
Total	67

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Assignments (2): 20%  
Quizzes (6): 18%  
Midsem: 31%  
Endsem: 31%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Open and Closed Systems  
Laws of Thermodynamics  
Steady State Conditions  
Reversible and Irreversible Processes  
Exergy Analysis  
Thermodynamic Relations  
Ideal & Real Gas Mixtures  
Fugacity  
Chemical Reaction  
Phase and Chemical Equilibrium  
Kinetic theory of Gas  
Statistical Thermodynamics

#### Teaching Style
Inverted Classroom: Lecture videos shared by the professor beforehand, to be viewed by the student before attending the lecture. Discussion on the uploaded video/slides during the lecture hours.  
Professor's teaching can tend to get boring sometimes, given the 1.5-hour duration of lectures. Doubt solving might end up being an issue with professor sometimes.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
There were 2 assignments, each take home and sufficient time was given to submit them. The questions were mainly taken from GATE exam papers.

#### Feedback on Exams
The exam questions were mostly directly taken from previous year GATE exams.  
The Midsem and Endsem exams' syllabus was everything taught in the respective half-semester. The question papers were provided on Moodle and the tests had to be submitted there itself.  
The quizzes were to be taken on SAFE and and the submission was to be done on both SAFE and Moodle.  
The overall difficulty of the tests can be  termed between intermediate-difficult.

#### Motivation for taking this course
A liking for Thermodynamics was the primary reason.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
One can take this course up if they're genuinely interested in thermodynamics, but a lot of self study would be required on the student's part.

#### When to take this course?
I took the course in my 7th semester. The ideal semesters for undertaking this course would be after the 6th sem (After ME 306: Applied Thermodynamics is done).

#### References Used
Books  
 Sonntag, Borgnakke & Van Wylen   
 Cengel & Boles  
 Adrian Bejan  
 Moran Shapiro  
 Sears and Salinger

#### Interesting relevant links
“Advanced Thermodynamics and Combustion” by Prof. S Gopalakrishnan, although the course by Prof. Saha diverged a bit at the later stages.  
http://www.cdeep.iitb.ac.in/vod/vodCloud/course_intra.php?ccode=208  
Go to “Archived Semester”, select “Mechanical Engineering” and then search “ME661” by Prof. Shivasubramanium Gopalakrishnan.

*Review By:* Rohan Singh