---
layout: post
title: "MA403 - Real Analysis"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/MA403.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sanjoy Pusti

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
The course is a more rigorous version of MA 105. If you did not have trouble with the content of MA 105, then you should be able to do the course with moderate effort. The course expects you to prove things rigorously. 

#### Time Commitment Required
It is slightly more than the average core course as it is an 8 credit course. Solving the practice problems every week is more than sufficient. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading policy was not that good. The average of the class lies around 7

#### Attendance Policy
There was no attendance policy.

#### Pre-requisites
There are no pre requisites, MA 105 is sufficient

#### Evaluation Scheme
2 quizzes (15% each), Midsem (30%) , Endsem(40%)

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The course contents mostly follow the sequence of the book "Principles of Mathematical Analysis by Walter Rudin." The content of the course are:  
  
Real Number system , Basic Topology,  Sequences and Series, Continuity, Differentiation, Reimann Integration, Sequences and Series of functions, The stone-weierstrass theorem, Arzela-Ascoli theorem.

#### Teaching Style
Since this was conducted in an online mode, the professor used the tablet to solve the problems and explained the proofs to the class by solving them on the screen, thereby simulating the blackboard. The professor was open to any doubts and solved them in the class itself.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Practice problems were posted every week, and the professor used to solve them along with students during the tutorial slot and gave hints to problems he could not cover in the tutorial sessions.

#### Feedback on Exams
The Exams were subjective and contained 3-4 problems (Midsem), 5-6 problems (Endsem). The problems were mostly proving some analysis results, and the grading was very strict, the professor expected students to provide rigorous proof.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Since I'm doing a minor in math, i had taken this course. It is also a good starting course for anyone wanting to learn Mathematical analysis

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If you are going to take up courses that are rigorous in math or analysis, then this is a recommended course for you. It is also a pre-requisite for many other math courses.

#### When to take this course?
Took up this course in my 5th semester. Ideally, I would suggest taking up this course in the 3rd semester and also, if you are doing a minor, it is ideal to start with this course.

#### References Used
Principles of Mathematical Analysis by Walter Rudin

*Review By:* Praneet Nayak