---
layout: post
title: "MM447 - Materials for Sustainable Development"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/MM447.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Satish Vitta

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course is pretty chill. The assignments are done without any need of lectures usually, and the exam(only 1 end-sem, nothing else) was pretty straightforward. The seminar was a bit demanding though

#### Time Commitment Required
4ish hours for assignments would be maximum. The seminar took some effort. Most reports were graded very stringently. Not much could be prepped for Endsem as the content is more to do with basic EVS and common sense.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
8 AA, 15 AB, 61 total

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Assignments, Seminar Report + PPT, Endsem

#### Topics Covered in the Course
1. Background: Materials & History; Concept of embodied energy; classification of materials based on embodied energy; Index of materials classification. 2. Sustainability & Sustainable development: Definition; Concept emphasis; 3 P’s of sustainable development; Examples. 3. Methodology of assessing sustainable development: Tools and check lists for assessment; Examples. 4. Herfindahl-Hirschmann Index: Methodology of indexing; Corporate responsibility vis-à-vis Sustainability; Examples. 5. Methodology for Case studies. 6. Case studies from across the spectrum: Energy; Construction; Steel; Food;. 7. Guidelines for future development: Ecological considerations; circular materials economy; typical examples. The course will have classical teaching mode together with a short project and discussion. the split will be about 70 to 30 for the two formats respectively. Evaluation will be based on test, examinations, class participation and project report-cum presentation.

#### Teaching Style
He did not provide slides, but only recordings, which made endsem prep cumbersome. Lectures were not very engaging, as was evident from attendance. Overall, not a good learning experience.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Some assignments were time consuming, as the questions asked may not be readily available in lectures or on the net.

#### Feedback on Exams
Endsem prep was very short as content seemed very generic and there were no slides.

#### Motivation for taking this course
I wanted to do institute electives for my open electives, and was looking for low effort/grade ratio course. 

#### Course Importance
I do not believe this course was very important. ES 200 covered the important concepts I believe. So, It's better to look for something else if the content intrigued you.

#### When to take this course?
7th sem. Doing in non-placement sem would be better.

*Review By:* Shardul Burde