---
layout: post
title: "PH251 - Classical Mechanics"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/PH251.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Archana Pai

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
This is an entry level course for the Physics Minor. It covers general topics on mechanics and the mathematics related to it that would interest any physics enthusiast. The course curriculum can be diverse but the topics are easy to understand.  

#### Time Commitment Required
Regularly watching the lectures are more than enough for covering the syllabus and scoring well in exams.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
The grading statistics are quite normal:  
AA : 20%  
AB : 30%  
BB : 30% 

#### Attendance Policy
The instructor uploads pre-recorded videos and takes doubt sessions once a week. These 30 minute sessions are the only ones one needs to attend and the instructor takes the attendance in here into consideration. 

#### Pre-requisites
First-year core courses in Mathematics(Calculus, Linear Algebra and Differential Equations) 

#### Evaluation Scheme
The instructor assigns a course project, several assignments and the standard exams with varied weightage.  

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The content overlaps with various core courses of mechanical engineering (like KDoM and Solid Mechanics). 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Recommended to all the students looking forward to delve into physics during their time at IITB. 

#### When to take this course?
I took the course in my third semester for pursuing the physics minor. In my opinion, it shall be taken in the third semester itself for a physics minor or it can be taken during any odd semester.  

*Review By:* Rishi Kanodia