---
layout: post
title: "SI527 - Introduction to Derivative Pricing"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/SI527.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
S.BASKAR

#### Semester
Spring'20

#### Course Difficulty
Pre- midsem the course is really basic but as the course proceeds it gets tougher

#### Time Commitment Required
3 hrs worth of lectures every week which are enough if pay full attention

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
40%of the highest marks is passing. Grading is relative to the highest marks. Easy to get above a 7 but difficult to score a 10.

#### Attendance Policy
All pre-recorded lectures, no attendance

#### Pre-requisites
Si417 is a hard pre-requisit.

#### Evaluation Scheme
10 quizzes of 10 percent each.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Types of financial securities, Present value and future value of money  
Cash flows, IRR, Annuities, Perpetuities  
Valuation, Bonds, Duration of bonds  
Term structure of interest rates, spot rates, forward rates  
Arbitrage and Forward pricing, Futures  
Swaps  
Types of Options, Option strategies, bounds on option prices, put-call parity  
Conditional expectation, Measurability (very theoretical part starts from here)  
Martingale theory, random walk, Brownian motion  
Properties of Brownian motion and martingales

#### Teaching Style
All the lectures were pre-recorded with weekly help sessions with the professor. The notes were really good and self-sufficient.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The assignments and tuts were important as the exams were directly based on them

#### Feedback on Exams
The tests in the start were easy and scoring. As the course progressed they became tougher and took more time to solve. A few of them were very calculative.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Wanted to complete my minor and also wanted to explore finance. This is one of the only courses available to btechs which touches on finance related topics.

#### Course Highlights
The concepts taught here have practical applications in these areas. It is a mix of probability concepts, financial topics and theoretical aspects.

#### Course Importance
No follow-up courses as such but gives a good overview of finance related topics

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If one wants to explore finance and quant, a good way to start off

#### When to take this course?
I took the course in my 4th sem. SI417 is a prerequisite hence it can be taken in any sem after you have completed the course.

#### References Used
Prof notes were enough

*Review By:* Vidushi Verma