---
layout: post
title: "ME360 - Power Plant Engineering"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME360.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Upendra Bhandarkar

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
All the examinations are based on class material. Reading additional reference books isn't required and class notes provided by professor is sufficient. Quizzes are directly from tutorial sets and all exams are open book open notes.

#### Time Commitment Required
No additional time commitment required apart from lecture hours.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Professor follow bell curve grading.

#### Attendance Policy
Bonus marks for attendance. No DX grade.

#### Pre-requisites
Basic knowledge of thermodynamics and heat transfer. 

#### Evaluation Scheme
5 Quizzes : 40%  
Endsem: 45 %  
2 Assignments: 15 %

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Course covers all the components of power plants. It begins with Rankine Cycle and its modifications. Followed by Boilers, Fuels and Combustions, Feed water Heaters, Turbines and Nozzles. Scheduling and power plant economics are discussed in brief.

#### Teaching Style
Professor teaches on the white board and the same is provided at the end of the class.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
First assignment involves collecting some data regarding current world energy scenario. Second assignment is a presentation on power plant related topic.

#### Feedback on Exams
Quiz: Questions in the quiz are directly from tutorial set.  
Endsem: Endsem paper is a bit involved but can be tackled by referring to class notes. Exam is open book open notes.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Developed interest in power plant engineering during ME306: Applied Thermodynamics.

#### Course Importance
This course is an introductory course to the world of power plant engineering. Post this course, most courses in energy department will be easy to tackle.

#### When to take this course?
I took this course in my seventh semester. Ideal time would be post completing applied thermodynamics.

#### Going Forward
Course recommendations: EN607 & EN642

*Review By:* Yash Mandhana