---
layout: post
title: "ME663 - Advanced Heat Transfer"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME663.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sridhar Balasubramaniam

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course was moderately difficult. If you have done heat transfer, then a majority of the syllabus (around 70-80%) is just a recap of that with a few extra topics in each subsection.

#### Time Commitment Required
Around 2-3 hours a week

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading was a bit harsh, very few AAs and ABs, while around 20% of the class was given FRs

#### Attendance Policy
No minimum attendance required (for the online semester atleast)

#### Pre-requisites
Heat transfer

#### Evaluation Scheme
Midsem-30%, Endsem-30%, Final project-40%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Course divided into 3 modules: Conduction, convection, radiation. All three were covered in great detail

#### Teaching Style
Recorded lectures were given with a discussion meeting once a week.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Tutorials were given and were discussed in the weekly meeting. The final project was a big project that covered the entirety of the course and required a 20-25 page report submission. The project included graphs, calculations, codes.

#### Feedback on Exams
Midsem and endsem were of moderate difficulty

#### Motivation for taking this course
If you liked heat transfer, then you'll enjoy this course, especially the final project

#### Course Highlights
Final project

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
6/10

#### When to take this course?
7th semester. You can take this course anytime after you've done the basic heat transfer course

*Review By:* Himanshu Neema