---
layout: post
title: "HS303 - Psychology"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/HS303.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Rashmi Gupta

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Easy

#### Time Commitment Required
2 hrs a week 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
This is the hard part of the course cause most of the people who take the course are pretty serious, making relative grading a bit tough. Scoring decent marks will not suffice a good grade. This semester people scoring 90+ also couldn’t get a AA. 

#### Attendance Policy
There was no attendance policy (Online Sem)

#### Pre-requisites
None 

#### Evaluation Scheme
50% - Midsem  
50% - Endsem

#### Topics Covered in the Course
•	Why study Psychology/Benefits?  
•	What is Psychology?  
•	History of Psychology  
•	Learning   
•	Cognitive Neuroscience  
•	Depression  
•	Perception  
•	Social perception  
•	Attention  
•	Emotion, Reward, and Motivation Processes  
•	Memory

#### Teaching Style
Live online lectures along with a lot of demonstrations to make the class more interactive 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
No tutorials/Assignments/Projects were conducted

#### Feedback on Exams
There were only two exams (mid-semester and end-semester), and they were straightforward. MCQ type with negative marking. Totally from the slides.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Psychology is about learning human behavior, which seemed fascinating to me. The course content was excellent and covered my interests.   

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
I would surely recommend this course to those who are looking towards understanding the science behind various cognitive processes and don't care much about grades.

#### When to take this course?
I took the course in the 5th semester. There is no ideal semester for taking the course you can take it whenever you want (except in your freshmen year) but according to the BTech curriculum it is mandatory to take in 5th sem    

#### References Used
Slides are more than enough for scoring good marks, but to enjoy the course, you can refer to Cognitive Psychology connecting mind, research, and everyday experience by E. Bruce Goldstein.

#### Other Remarks
The course is fun if you follow the text and attend the classes religiously. 

*Review By:* Gunin Gupta