---
layout: post
title: "CM803 - Introduction to Climate Change"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/CM803.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Chandra Venkataraman, Prof. Pradip Kalbar, Prof. Trupti Mishra

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Content wise heavy, a wide range of topics covered in the course of 4 months, might get overwhelming. You will be expected to finish reading material (avg. 10 pages document) before each class

#### Time Commitment Required
out of class hours 5 hours per week(according to me)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Problem sets / tutorials / comprehensive problems (PS1-PS3, P4-P5, P6-P7) – 20% (grading on  
completion and computational / research effort)  
Midsem – 25%  
Endsem – 35%  
Presentation / quiz / term paper / debate / class participation – 20% (10% each of any two)  
  
AA	1  
AB	8  
BB	4  
BC	4  
CC	1  
CD	1  
FF	1  
FR	2

#### Attendance Policy
Class participation marks, so in a way compulsory

#### Pre-requisites
Second and third module certain policy aspects, if you have some background that could help

#### Topics Covered in the Course
introduction to a fundamental understanding and problem centered analysis of climate  
change science and responses, with an emphasis on regional scale impacts, assessment of technological options to address mitigation and abatement strategies  
  
Module 1 provides an overview of the physical science of climate change  
Module 2 will address climate impacts, vulnerability and risks  
Module 3 focuses on climate mitigation and policy

#### Teaching Style
Lectures slides used for teaching in class (slides not exhaustive), further a 20 pages (approx) document- reading material to be covered before each class. In each class you are supposed to come prepared with the answer of a question given to you before itself and speak for about 2 minutes, that carried about 10% weightage

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
They are designed to build your understanding properly, only if you give sufficient amount of time on the tutorials/assignments as well as attend classes regularly

#### Feedback on Exams
Quizzes- objective type  
Midsem and endsem fairly difficult 

#### Motivation for taking this course
I am into meteorology, climate change, sustainability and have worked on the same in the past. I took this course with the belief that it will cover the science aspect of climate change and relate it to predictability, but it is just one of the three modules. 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If you can invest a lot of time and energy for a particular semester based on your overall load, then it can be a great learning opportunity. YOU WILL NEED TO PUT A LOT OF EFFORTS.

#### When to take this course?
Fourth year, autumn semester

#### References Used
Reading material (topic specific) will be provided by the respective instructors

*Review By:* Misari Bhanani