---
layout: post
title: "HS305 - Reading Literature"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/HS305.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Paulomi Chakraborty, Shastri Sudha, Ratheesh R.

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course is fairly understandable if one attends lectures and takes part in the discussions. Watching recordings would not be as helpful. Some time should be spent in reading and formulating an understanding the prose/poetry that is being currently studied in class.

#### Time Commitment Required
Apart from lectures, an hour or so in a week. More time would be required when assignments are assigned. Rereading the particular prose, keeping the question in mind becomes important. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Moderately generous. We had 17 AA and 33 AB.

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
2/3 Assignments per professor with equal weightage distributed amongst them. 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Reading drama, fiction and creative nonfiction (prose narratives, short stories, poetry and texts of different genres from authors around the world). We also did post-colonial reading of Shakespeare. 

#### Teaching Style
Lectures, with slides, and assignments to test us on the various literary pieces we read/studied. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments are important as they completely constitute our grade. No tutorials or projects. 

#### Feedback on Exams
Moderate to difficult assignments as they require some research to be done, and detailed re-reading of the texts. Creative answers earn brownie points. 

#### Motivation for taking this course
If you enjoy and appreciate reading literature, this is a great course to take. It allows you to not only enjoy the various pieces, but also analyze them in an academic setting, and notice things that you usually wouldn't. We also learn about social, psychological and political issues depending on what pieces are being studied.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Strongly recommend to take this to course, for those who enjoy literature in general. 

*Review By:* Hiya Gada