---
layout: post
title: "CM801 - Introduction to Risk Analysis"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/US607.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Subhankar Karnmakar (a very very nice professor - best giveaway for the course!)

#### Semester
Spring' 22

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate - level 3
I took up the course in my third year, it didn't seem too difficult. Probability-based content is taught; it is not too advanced, though.

#### Time Commitment Required
I only studied for 6-7 hours prior to quizzes; endsem/midsem/project would require more time. Overall 2 hrs a week of consistent studying or even honest last-minute prep is sufficient. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
8/28 AAs, 9/28 ABs - grading was chill; however, since there are a lot of M.Techs who take up the course too, it's difficult to bag good grades without actually putting in effort. 

#### Attendance Policy
The professor was strict about attendance - approximately 70% is required.

#### Pre-requisites
Not for B.Tech students 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Some theory about environmental risk & mathematical models to quantify the same (fuzzy techniques etc.) -- easy to moderate level content but there are quite a few topics - so good prep & time would be required.

#### Teaching Style
Very comprehensive slides + the prof. is very open to clearing doubts -- most questions for exams are based on the content taught in class.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
2 Assignments - pretty chill ChatGPT level; group project is also straightforward - need to review some papers & develop insights on the same

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were quite easy, although one needs to be thorough with the content & hence put in honest effort + time

#### Motivation for taking this course
Can help with a modelling-based approach of risk analysis + offers real-world applications since it's environment based. I took it as a course to explore environment based content - was slightly more math heavy than expected. 

*Review By:* Meenal Agarwal