---
layout: post
title: "ENT609 - Marketing and Finance for Entrepreneurs"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ENT609.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof Devdip Purkayastha, Prof Rohan Chinchwadkar

#### Semester
Autumn '22

#### Course Difficulty
The course content wasn't difficult but required religious efforts weekly. Assignment submissions were very important and you didn't lose marks in them. 

#### Time Commitment Required
Atleast 4.5 hrs a week including lectures

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Lenient with 50% of class with 9+ and remaining with 7s and 8s

#### Attendance Policy
Expected 100% attendance

#### Pre-requisites
None required

#### Evaluation Scheme
25% Assignments  
25% Mid Term Presentation  
25% End Term Presentation  
25% End Sem Exam

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Basics of building a start up - Customer Discovery, Customer problem & persona, Market sizing, Customer Value Proposition, Rapid prototyping, Go-to-Market & After-Market Plan, Supply Chain,Customer Channels, Accounting: Assets, Liabilities, Revenue, Costs, Cash Flows, Financial Statements: Balance sheet, Income - Cash flow - Equity statement, Time value of money; Financial Decision making, Startup Funding: Bootstrapping, Grants, Incubators & Accelerators, Angels, PE/VC, IPO Team

#### Teaching Style
We were to work on a startup in a diverse team of 5-6 members. All the assignments and presentations were to be done based on our start up idea. We were given sufficient time to finalize our idea with repeated discussions with the instructors.   
The Mid term presentation was focussed on our idea, the feedback we received from customers, and also our future road map.  
The End term presentation was mainly focussed on the company financials like revenue streams, 5 yr PnL, 5 yr Balance Sheet, etc.

#### Feedback on Exams
The EndSem was open book with ~40% of it based again on our startup. The rest was based on the case study discussed in class along with some MCQs.

#### Course Highlights
Entrepreneurship, Company Financials, Start Up Ideas, Start up journey

*Review By:* Keerthan Ramesh