---
layout: post
title: "ME603 - Kinematics and Dynamics of Machinery"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME603.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Dhanesh Manik

#### Semester
Autumn' 21

#### Course Difficulty
Difficult to score

#### Time Commitment Required
2-3 hours before every quiz( total 3), 2 hours on each assignment( 7) and endsem prep

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
5 AAs, 11 ABs, 16 BBs: Total 69 students

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance(online sem atleast)

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Quizes: 50% (best 3/4)  
Assignment; 20%(best 7/10)  
Endsem: 30

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Review of kinematic analysis-mobility, displacement, velocity and acceleration analysis of mechanisms. Kinematic synthesis - Function generation, path generation and rigid body guidance. Graphical and analytical techniques of synthesis Dynamic analysis of mechanism - Equations of motion, forward and inverse dynamic analysis, simulation of systems of interconnected rigid bodies. Vibration - review of single and two DOF systems. Multi DOF systems vibration, transfer matrix, Holzer and vector iteration techniques. Lagrange s equation of motion. Vibrations of continuous systems-axial, torsional and lateral vibration of bars. Introduction to nonlinear and random vibration.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Some assignments were very time consuming.

#### Feedback on Exams
Papers were not very scoring, and the marking scheme was not very lenient.

#### Course Importance
This course is not needed for UGs. ME 306-Kdom is already a core course in the 6th sem

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Grading scheme is very erratic across the years. Would recommend to avoid this course, as (a) the content will be covered in ME306, (b) Stats not reliant for a good grade

*Review By:* Shardul Burde