---
layout: post
title: "CS218 - Design & Analysis of Algorithms"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/CS347.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Paritosh Pandya

#### Semester
Autumn' 22

#### Course Difficulty
Overall the course is moderate. It is recommended to take it in the 3rd/4th year after completing CS213.

#### Time Commitment Required
It is recommended to attend all the lectures as Prof. Paritosh is a gem of a teacher. Apart from 3 hrs/week, studying a little bit before the exams should be enough.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading was lenient and most of the students got above BB.

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy was enforced.

#### Pre-requisites
None 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
1. Time & Space Complexity of Algorithms
2. Understanding and building recursion
3. P & NP problems
4. Different Algorithms like Flow, Min-max, etc

#### Teaching Style
Sir used slides in the class which were quite descriptive. The teaching seemed somewhat monotonous, especially in the second half of the course as the topics became theory intensive. A couple of assignments were given and solved by the TAs in class.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
2 Quizzes - 10% each
Midsem - 30%
Endsem - 50%
2 assignments were given for self-practice. They were quite useful as questions in the exams were quite related to the ones given in the assignments.

#### Feedback on Exams
The exams were subjective and were on the easier side with the Endsem being exceptionally harder.

#### Motivation for taking this course
This course was more on the theoretical side and focused on algorithm analysis. You may take some advanced algorithms courses in CS if you like this course.

*Review By:* Kalash Shah