---
layout: post
title: "CL603 - Optimization"
categories: [dept electives, insti electives, CL]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/DS203.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Santosh Noronha

#### Semester
Third

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
1 hour apart from lectures per week would be enough
#### Grading Policy and Statistics
(Slightly Harsh) AA(3)  AB(6)  BB(8)  BC(12)  CC(8)  CD(10)  DD(3)  FR(9)

#### Attendance Policy
The professor didn't take attendance, but 5% of the course weightage was for class participation

#### Teaching Style
He didn't use slides and did blackboard teaching, but provided his own handouts(notes) which were sufficient to understand the course. The professor wasn't the most engaging one so attendance started dropping. All of the exams were open notes and students were allowed to take his handouts. The exams were not that challenging but were really lengthy and calculation heavy.
#### Feedback on Assignments/ Tutorials/ Projects
He provided assignments to solve but they were never discussed. There was an optional project in the course with weightage 5%. The project would offset the marks of the quiz in which you performed the poorest. Very few people completed the project.

#### Course Importance
This course will help you achieve a basic understanding of one of the most practical and widely used branches of mathematics called optimization. Examples of optimization can be seen everywhere around you, from businesses to ML to supply chain everything is supposed to be optimised. This course can help you build a better understanding of such topics.

#### Future Tracks
There are alot of optimistation courses that will build on the understanding developed here in the IEOR, CS and SysCon department.

#### Additional Comments
This course is nice and is a basic course but there are a lot of other optimisation courses running as well that can be explored. Particulary this course is more focused on problem solving, there are some other popular optimisation courses that are more focused on building problems/models/equations. So choose the courses carefully as per what you want to learn. 

*CL603 Review By:* Khushajh Verma