---
layout: post
title: "HS448 - Professional Ethics"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, liberal arts, HS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/HS448.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Vikram Singh Sirola

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
Easy

#### Time Commitment Required
Class time and extra time for compulsory reading material provided.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Good.

#### Attendance Policy
No strict attendance, but marks were given to those who were regular for class participation, etc.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
I. Introduction to Ethics: Conceptual and Foundational Issues  
a. What is morality?  
b. Approaches to Ethical issues  
c. Analysis of Ethical concepts  
d. Fundamental ethical theories  
  
II. Nature and Characteristics of Professions and professional  
  
III. The relation between professional and general ethics;  
a. Moral agent: Ethical dilemmas and conflicts  
b. Moral qualities associated with professions  
c. Rights and Responsibilities of Professionals: Occupational and Ordinary Morality  
  
IV. Foundations and norms of professional ethics; issue of autonomy of professional ethics  
  
V. Specific issues pertaining to:  
a. Medical Ethics (Bioethics)  
b. Business Ethics  
c. Engineering Ethics  
d. Environmental Ethics

#### Teaching Style
Aim: discussing the special ethical problems and issues that arise in a profession for the professional, the client, and the larger community.  
Methodology: application of moral reasoning to established professions such as engineering. Medical, business, nursing, journalism, etc. 

#### Motivation for taking this course
Through successful completion of course – lecture discussions, readings, and assignments one would hopefully gain the tools to identify and analyze ethical issues in your professional life.   
  
Application of moral reasoning to established professions such as engineering. Medical, business, nursing, journalism etc.  
  
Moral reasoning entails the search for values and principles that promote a good life and human flourishing. Employing the expertise as professional may affect the lives of others very severely. It is critically important that one is thoughtful and reflective about the role of ethics in their work. 

#### Interesting relevant links
Martin, Mike W, Meaningful Work : Rethinking Professional Ethics, New York: Oxford University Press, 2000  
Koehn, D., The Ground of Professional Ethics, Routledge, 1995  
Camenisch, P.F. Grounding Professional Ethics in a Pluralistic Society, N.Y.: Haven  
Publications, 1983  
Bayles, M.D., Professional Ethics, California: Wardsworth Publishing Company, 1981  
Wuest, D.E., Professional Ethics and Social Responsibility, Rowman & Littlefield, 1994

*HS 448 Review By:* Shruti Singh