---
layout: post
title: "ME743 - Optical Methods in Mechanical Engineering"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME743.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Atul Srivastava

#### Semester
Autumn '19-'20

#### Course Difficulty
The professor focuses on learning the concepts, so the 'difficulty' is a non-issue. 

#### Time Commitment Required
Just the classes + a few tutorial sheets to be solved before the exams, nothing else.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
3 AAs and 9 ABs out of 20, so quite reasonable - the policy wasn't revealed

#### Attendance Policy
Attendance was taken in class everyday

#### Pre-requisites
JEE optics

#### Evaluation Scheme
Midsem and endsem, tutorial sheets, weightages were not disclosed

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Concepts in optics and applications of optics in metrology

#### Teaching Style
Prof Atul centers his teaching on concepts with plenty of visual aid to understand the involved concepts (lots of pretty pictures in this course, btw). Equations are mostly only used to convey concepts. There is plenty of room for doubts in the class, and the professor is always willing to stay back after classes to discuss, so do speak up.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
They are learning-based

#### Feedback on Exams
Pretty straightforward

#### Motivation for taking this course
-

#### Course Highlights
-

#### Course Importance
-

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Very strongly.

#### When to take this course?
7th semester (Autumn '19-'20). Can take whenever.

#### Going Forward
-

#### References Used
-

#### Other Remarks
-

#### Interesting relevant links
-

*Review By:* Arush Gupta