---
layout: post
title: "ME415 - Computational Fluid Dynamics and Heat Transfer"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME415.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Janani Muralidharan 

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course is moderately difficult . The concepts were not very hard to understand after referring to the prescribed textbook. There were coding assignments which were to be done in Scilab but sufficient time was given to learn programming in Scilab. A project in Ansys was also a significant part of the course and one would benefit if they knew Ansys Fluent beforehand. 

#### Time Commitment Required
The theory portion consisted of watching videos uploaded by Prof Atul Sharma every week and one session with the prof for discussion and doubts. The time required was appropriate to a 6 credit course   
The group project and coding assignments required significant time commitment other than the class time. Debugging sessions were also held to help the students with the coding assignments. 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
  
AA - 5  
AB - 15  
BB- 4  
BC - 1  
DD - 1  
FR - 2

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy was enforced in the online sem

#### Pre-requisites
Basic Fluid mechanics and programming skills would be a good skill to have for this course. Being comfortable with Ansys Fluent would be an added benefit 

#### Evaluation Scheme
2 Quizzes : 5%   
Coding assignments : 45%  
Endsem : 20%  
Project : 30%  


#### Topics Covered in the Course
Review of conservation equations, basic fluid dynamics and heat transfer, Finite Differencing schemes and Finite Volume Schemes, CFD of conduction and convection, Staggered Grid 

#### Teaching Style
Video lectures of Prof Atul Sharma were shared every week along with an interactive session for discussion and doubt solving 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Coding assignments were intresting and a good introduction to coding for CFD.  
Ansys project was involved and introduced us to many features of Ansys 

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were a bit length but quiet conceptual. Moderate to difficult 

#### Motivation for taking this course
This course gives a good overview of CFD and provides a strong foundation for further exploration in the field

#### Course Highlights
The project was the highlight of the course. It involved analysis of ventilation in IIT Bombay classrooms to mitigate risk due to Covid-19 using Ansys FLUENT. It was a glimpse into how actual CFD analysis works and the results of the project was to be implemented in IITB classrooms 

#### Course Importance
This course along with the project is a good opportunity to learn Ansys Fluent and its application which would be vital for anyone venturing in Thermals and Fluids engineering. The FVD and FDM approaches also provide a base if one wishes to persue research in CFD 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
I would strongly recommend this course to anyone interested in CFD and TFE. 

#### When to take this course?
I took this course in my 5th sem. This course is also offered in the 4th sem under Prof Saha. 4th/5th sem would be an ideal time to take this course 

#### Going Forward
Opens many avenues for research as CFD is a very vast field. One can specialize in performing simulations on Ansys which would be a very useful skill. 

#### References Used
Introduction to Computational Fluid Dynamics by Atul Sharma  


#### Interesting relevant links
Prof Atul Sharma's lectures on youtube https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6Q9xQQ31DAKTQzUwEaKuQg

*Review By:* Varun Pathak