---
layout: post
title: "ME420 - Cryogenic Engineering"
categories: [dept electives, insti electives, alc, design, thermodynamics / heat transfer, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/ME420.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Milind D Atrey

#### Semester
Spring 2020-21

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate, gets a bit rigorous towards the end

#### Time Commitment Required
About 3 hours/week apart from classes 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Relative grading based on difficulty and class average  
Grading statistics are normal and reasonable

#### Attendance Policy
Compulsory attendance (>80%). Had to be relaxed in online sem. The prof remembers names of students who are attending/ non-attending and calls them out

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites as such. Basic thermodynamics (cycles) and flair in control volume approach might assist. 

#### Evaluation Scheme
2 quizzes, 10% each  
1 course seminar presentation, 10%  
Midsem 25%  
Endsem 45%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Gas liquifaction systems. Gas - separation and gas-purification systems. Cryogenic refrigeration systems. Gas-properties of materials of low temperatures. Ultra-low temperature techniques

#### Teaching Style
Live classes. Exhaustive slides. In-class problem solving is very important. Teaching is complete in every sense. The professor is very knowledgeable and explains everything extremely well. 

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The project(course seminar presentation) requires sincere efforts and is deeply scrutinised by the professor, but is a excellent learning opportunity.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams are moderately difficult. Quizzes are on the easier with the 1st quiz somewhat memory based and basic concepts (discussed in class) based.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Interest in thermal and fluid engineering, thermodynamic cycles

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
For those interested in TFE 8.5/10

#### When to take this course?
6th semester. I think this is the ideal time to take the course as it requires some basic knowledge of thermodynamics and has certain rigour which might not be dealt with very smoothly in the 4th semester

#### Other Remarks
Professor Atrey has been working in the cryogenics field since quite long and therefore has a lot of knowledge and experience. Adding to it, he is an excellent instructor. Being taught by him is a rewarding experience.

*ME 420 Review By:* Prasann Jaiswal