---
layout: post
title: "ME712 - Computer Numerical Control and Programming "
categories: [dept electives, alc, automation, computer aided design (cad), control systems, design, manufacturing and additive manufacturing, production planning, ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/ME712.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
S.S. Pande

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate. 

#### Time Commitment Required
Moderate. Going over the lecture slides weekly is enough. 3 lab sessions (CNC machine tutorials) are scheduled outside lecture hours over the semester.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Lenient. 50% got AB and above in spring '20 and 40% in 2018.

#### Attendance Policy
70% attendance expected. Although no penalty was imposed last semester.

#### Pre-requisites
Not really. Everything is covered from basic. Some basic idea of CNC and machining can be helpful.

#### Evaluation Scheme
3 quizzes of 10-15 % each, 35% endsem, 20-25% 3 group labs. No midsem.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Basics of Automation, Industrial Automation using Pneumatic Control, Fundamentals of Numerical Control - NC, CNC, DNC, Configurations of CNC Machines - Axes, Nomenclature  
Computational Algorithms for CNC Interpolators, Programming CNC Machines - Formats and Codes, Programming CNC Milling Centers- Cycles, Programming CNC Turning Centers - Cycles,Parametric Programming and Macros, Sculptured Surface CNC Machining  
Computational Algorithms for multi axis CNC machines, Distributed Numerical Control - STEP, webCNC

#### Teaching Style
Slides are used and are more than enough. Professor Pande's teaching style is great and he covers all basics and clears all doubts. All content is properly structured.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
3 Lab assignments to be submitted as a group. The TAs may also include viva sometimes. They are easy and doable if attention is paid in class/slides are read.

#### Feedback on Exams
Moderate level exams with 2-3 main questions which are numericals and sometimes reasoning theory questions that address the basic concepts. All exams have a similar pattern and sometimes also contain 2-3 MCQs

#### Course Importance
If you are interested in CAD/CAM or wish to learn industrial automation, this is great course to start. Especially great for Dual Degree people in CIM. 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Strongly. There is learning in this course and the professor has been in this field for a long time.

#### When to take this course?
Spring '20

*ME 712 Review By:* Sankalp Aloné