---
layout: post
title: "ME735 - Computer Graphics and Product Modeling"
categories: [dept electives, alc, computer aided design (cad), ME]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/ME735.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof S. S. Pande

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Chill

#### Time Commitment Required
Low time commitment except when working on course project, but still weekly 3 hours are enough 

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Relative grading. AA 18, AB 19, BB 5, BC 3

#### Attendance Policy
80% required but not enforced

#### Pre-requisites
ME714 would help out a lot in the first half of the course

#### Evaluation Scheme
35%-Quizzes, 40% Endsem and 25% for Project

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The course is an introductory course for working on CAD/CAM.  
-Computer Graphics system   
-Graphics algorithms  
-Geometric and Projection Transformations  
-Vector valued Parametric and Rational equations  
-Modeling of Freeform surfaces  
-Fundamentals of 3 D Product Modeling  
-Feature based modeling – Design by Features approach,   
-Data structures for product modeling   
-Product Life Cycle Management

#### Teaching Style
Instructor thoroughly teaches each topic in lectures and effectively takes up 3 quizzes at regular intervals. Instructor expects that the students practice questions from the book as course content is being taught. There is a project with an emphasis on doing original work to further explore topics taught in the class room. Meetings with TAs are setup to ensure work is being done by students.  

#### Motivation for taking this course
If interested in getting started in CADA, this is a good way to get started.

#### When to take this course?
8th semester. After 3rd year. 

#### References Used
Computer Graphics and Product Modeling for CAD/CAM by SS Pande

*ME 735 Review By:* Kanishka Sunick