---
layout: post
title: "ME669 - Design for Manufacturing"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ME669.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Amitava De

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Course is very easy and if you are attending classes then there is nothing you need to worry about

#### Time Commitment Required
Attending classes regularly.  
Give a maximum of two hours before the quiz.  
And 3-4 hours before midsems and endsems.  
You'll probably end up with an AA.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
12 AA  
4 AB  
6 BB  
1 BC

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance policy

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
40% endsem  
20% midsem  
20% presentation  
20% quizzes

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Concepts of Design for Manufacturing (DFM), Role of DFM in product specification and standardization, design, development, and functional requirements, material and process selection. Introduction to Components of DFM – Design for Assembly, Performance, Quality, Bio-compatibility, Ergonomics, Recycling, etc. Design to Cost. Quantitative methods of material selection in DFM based on engineering properties, material performance indices, comparative property charts, costs, etc., Evaluation of single and multi-attribute utilities. Design rules for selection of materials and processes, Part geometry and tolerances, Shape factor, Prototyping, Computer-aided material and functional modeling, Mathematical Optimization, Formation of objective and constraint functions, Factorial analysis. Case studies on product design for manufacturing and assembly.

#### Teaching Style
Everything is very good and easy to understand. He uses examples which makes it easier. Overall very good teaching and a very easy course.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Very easy, just pay attention in class 

#### Feedback on Exams
All were form whatever was taught in the class.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Superb grading and not much time consuming.

*Review By:* Hitansh Chandra