---
layout: post
title: "SI417 - Introduction to Probability Theory"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/SI417.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
S.Baskar

#### Semester
Autumn'20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
The lectures had 3 hr worth of content every week. Apart from that tuts were given which took about 2-3 hrs but were optional

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
It is difficult to score a AA but rather easy to score above a 7.

#### Attendance Policy
Took this course online. The lectures were pre-recorded so no attendance there, help sessions had optional attendance

#### Pre-requisites
This is an introductory course in Statistics hence only JEE stats knowledge is expected 

#### Evaluation Scheme
AA to the highest scorer,  absolute grading wrt to highest marks. 40% of the highest marks was the passing criteria 

#### Topics Covered in the Course
 Discrete and continuous probability, Random variables and expectation, Special classes of random variables, Probability theorems and laws etc.

#### Teaching Style
All Pre-recorded lectures, weekly tuts and quizes

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
The tuts were important as the exams were directly based on them. 

#### Feedback on Exams
10 quizzes of 10 percent each. The quizzes in the start of the semester were very scoring. The content got tougher as the semester passed

#### Motivation for taking this course
Wanted to explore Statistics, Also enjoyed probability the most during JEE times.

#### Course Highlights
Got a basic knowledge of a few basic stats theorems which were used in some aptitude problems as well.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Should definitely  take the course up if you like probability and are want to explore it further. Though as the course approaches the  content becomes really theoretical.

#### When to take this course?
I took the course up in my 3 sem. As this is a pre-requisite for all other Stats minor courses, have to take this up in the 3 sem itself. 

#### Going Forward
You can complete your stats minor , de minor

#### References Used
Some NPTL courses from IIT Madras elec department have similar content

*Review By:* Vidushi Verma