---
layout: post
title: "IE503 - Operations Analysis"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/IE503.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Narayan Rangaraj

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course is on the easier side with slightly below the average difficulty level. But since it does not require any prerequisites and is not mathematical but rather logical and algorithm based, it is very popular and therefore, the competition along with relative grading pulls the bar up.

#### Time Commitment Required
2-3 hours a week apart from lectures

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Grading is normal, neither lenient nor strict. Since competition is a factor, and evaluation are few with high weightages, mistakes can cause significant damage to your grades.  
  
Our grading had 22 AAs, 30 ABs, 29 BBs and 39 BCs among a batch size of 202. Sort of uniform.

#### Attendance Policy
In online mode, the attendance was not compulsory including the in-class tutorial sessions.

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites needed  
Knowledge about optimisation will not give you an edge

#### Evaluation Scheme
Best 2 out of 3 quizzes (12.5% each): Because of logistics problems in the first quiz otherwise it could have been 3 quizzes with 8% each  
Midsem 25%  
Endsem 50%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Part 1: Stages of manufacturing supply chain and value addition. Concepts of supply, storage, production, warehousing and transport. Supply chain terminology. Structure of supply chains, decisions and decision levels in supply chain. Overview of supply chain operations & costs: location, procurement, production, inventory, transportation, and information technology. Material flow systems: push, pull, flow shop, job shop, cell, etc  
  
Part 2: Quantitative models in supply chain systems including forecasting, production planning, scheduling and inventory models. Basic forecasting models. Product structure representation. Bill of materials. Material accounting logic and MRP systems. Scheduling and sequencing of parts: single/two machine. Notion of quality & quality control. Quality and yield of manufacturing processes. Inventory models: EOQ, periodic review, continuous review. Introduction to procurement and distribution models. Transport & logistics costs. Project management techniques:CPM and PERT

#### Teaching Style
Slides along with problem and other relevant discussions on the board. Prof Rangaraj teaches very well and addresses all doubts and queries. The TAs are also helpful.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Tutorials/homework problems were very helpful for the exams and need not be submitted.  
There were no assignments/projects.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were moderately difficult. None of the evaluations were out of what was taught in class and weren't difficult.  
The pattern of questions in exams is along the lines of tutorial/homework problems

#### When to take this course?
7th semester. 5th or 7th semester would be ideal to take the course.

*Review By:* Prasann Jaiswal