---
layout: post
title: "MM656 - Simulation and Optimisation"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/MM656.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sumit Saxena

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course is easily one of the most straightforward courses in the department. It mainly teaches you formulating equations and constraints and then using different techniques to solve those equations. The professor is crisp and clear and easy to follow, and the slides used are pretty exhaustive. The pace at which it is taught is very comfortable. All in all, it is very easy to learn and score in this course.

#### Time Commitment Required
This is not a time heavy course. Paying full attention in class should sufficiently prepare you for the exams. No extra efforts needed.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
One of the most chill grading you'll find in any course. Most of the UG students taking the course generally get an AA or AB.

#### Attendance Policy
Attendance was not compulsory. Students were encouraged to attend all lectures and tutorials.

#### Pre-requisites
None. Although basics of linear algebra would be helpful, all that is required is taught from scratch.

#### Evaluation Scheme
Quizzes - 20 mks  
Midsem - 20 mks  
Endsem - 40 mks  
Take home assignments - 20 mks

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Can be found on ASC

#### Teaching Style
Professor uses own slides to teach. Rarely his own notes are used. These are sufficient. Reference books are available but unnecessary for the purposes of the course.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Take home assignments are really straightforward and make you practice the concepts learnt in class.

#### Feedback on Exams
Scoring marks in exams is really easy. There is no real distinction between midsem, endsem and quizzes. Questions in exams are exactly on the same models that are taught in class. Some of them are very direct while a few are application based and might require you to think a little. But that is also easy and doesn't require any pre requisite knowledge.

#### Motivation for taking this course
It was a core course.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Highly recommended if you want a high grade with low efforts. 

#### When to take this course?
No ideal time as such.

*Review By:* Siddharth Pradhan