---
layout: post
title: "SC625 - Systems Theory"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/SC625.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Vivek Natarajan

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
The course is somewhere between moderate to tough. It involves a lot of proofs, but the prof makes very good notes of the proofs. Evaluations are done solely on the basis of content covered in the lectures, and with regular attention, the course can be navigated without much difficulty.

#### Time Commitment Required
3-4 hrs/week

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Decent.

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Vector spaces, dimension, basis, subspaces, dual spaces, annihilators, direct sum, linear transformations, matrix representations, similarity, rank and nullity, a primer on linear systems - state-space models, minimal realization, controllability, observability

#### Teaching Style
Live lectures with recordings given later. The prof makes comprehensive notes, which are necessary and sufficient for the course. 

#### Feedback on Exams
Closed notes. Consists of proofs, but nothing is outside what's covered in the class. Direct questions are asked from the lecture notes.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Getting understanding of basic concepts in control theory. 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Very strongly, especially for someone with interests in control theory.

*Review By:* Pruthak Joshi