---
layout: post
title: "SC202 - Signals and Feedback Systems"
categories: [minors, aerospace, automotive, control systems, mechanics, robotics, SC]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/SC202.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Bijnan Bandhopadhyay, P V Nataraj

#### Semester
Spring '21

#### Course Difficulty
The first half of the course is a breeze (Taught by Prof. Nataraj). The second part (taught by Prof. Bandhopadhyay) is involving but not difficult to understand. The exams were close notes and we had to memorize a few things which made it difficult, but overall very interesting and easy to understand.

#### Time Commitment Required
Apart from lectures, first half of the course does not require any extra effort. The second half would require more, about 1-2 hours a week.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Very generous. AA-8, AB-10, BB-11 out of total 37 students

#### Attendance Policy
None

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Two-three quizzes conducted, a midsem and an endsem. Weightages are: 10% for quizzes and equal weightage splitted between midsem and endsem.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Signals and systems and their interconnections  
convolution, differential and difference equations  
state variable models  
Fourier, Laplace and z-transforms  
regions of convergence  
transfer function  
linear feedback systems  
stability problem, the Routh-Hurwitz and root locus method.

#### Teaching Style
Instruction was in the form of lectures and tutorials

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Weekly tutorials in the second half. No projects or assignments.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were online, closed notes. We had to type the answer in Moodle which was tedious. Hopefully this course is taught offline :)

#### Motivation for taking this course
It is a compulsory course for minor degree. It is a very good introduction to control systems.

#### Course Importance
Very important if you want to take further courses in controls.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
For people who want to pursue controls, very.

#### When to take this course?
Fourth semester. That would be the most ideal time.

#### Going Forward
This forms the basis of controls, so you will be opened up to an entire new field.

*SC 202 Review By:* Hiya Gada