---
layout: post
title: "CM802 - Atmosphere and Climate Change"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/CM802.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Chandra Venkataraman, Prof. Y.S. Mayya

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Content wise heavy, a wide range of topics covered in the course of 4 months, might get overwhelming. You will be expected to finish reading material (avg. 10 pages document) before each class

#### Time Commitment Required
out of class hours 5 hours per week (according to me)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Mid-semester exam – 20, Final-exam - 30, Quizzes – 10, Problems &  
Comprehensive problems – 20, Course project / presentation – 10, Class participation - 10  
  
AA	2  
AU	2  
BB	2  
BC	1  
CD	1  
DD	1  
FR	3

#### Attendance Policy
Class participation marks, so in a way compulsory

#### Pre-requisites
Knowledge about photochemistry and background in atmospheric chemistry

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Atmospheric composition and climate, thermodynamics and microscale stability, gases and radiation, atmospheric chemical kinetics, photochemistry, atmospheric aerosols, dry and wet deposition processes, aerosols light scattering, aerosols and climate, cloud physics, cloud forcing of climate, chemistry of clouds and fogs

#### Teaching Style
Lectures slides used for teaching in class (slides not exhaustive), further a 20 pages (approx) document- reading material to be covered before each class. In each class you are supposed to come prepared with the answer of a question given to you before itself and speak for about 2 minutes, that carried about 10% weightage

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
comprehensive problems, very important for understanding the concepts and from exam point of view, grading for completion and efforts   
  
Project: topic relevant to course content  
literature review,  modelling/analysis on real data (actual outputs expected)

#### Feedback on Exams
I found the exams difficult because covering the content before exams, keeping up with classes was itself a challenge for me. I didn't put in enough efforts to cover the long reading material before each class. 

#### Motivation for taking this course
I am into meteorology, climate change, sustainability and have worked on the same in the past. I thought learning about atmospheric processes and chemistry will help me in my future research work. 

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
YOU WILL NEED TO PUT A LOT OF EFFORTS. 

#### When to take this course?
Autumn semester, fourth year

#### References Used
1. Atmospheric chemistry and physics: From air pollution to climate change, J.H. Seinfeld and S.N. Pandis,  
Wiley, 1998, ISBN 0 471 178160. [S&P]  
  
2. Fundamentals of atmospheric modeling, M.Z. Jacobson, Cambridge University Press, 1999, ISBN 0 521  
637171. [MZJ]

*Review By:* Misari Bhanani