---
layout: post
title:  "Syscon Minor"
categories: [Minor]
tags: [experiences]
image: assets/images/minor/Ajitesh.jpeg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

*By:* Ajitesh

###  When and how did you decide to pursue this minor?: 
Was interested in robotics, mechatronics and control. I found robotics minor basket very scattered in terms of courses and thought that if I dont choose courses correctly, I may not utilize the minor properly. 
Also, felt that robotics minor didnt have a structure along with uncertainty in the basket courses.
Also wanted to explore controls from a more theoretical pov

### Why this Minor?
Was interested in robotics, mechatronics and control. I found robotics minor basket very scattered in terms of courses and thought that if I dont choose courses correctly, I may not utilize the minor properly. 
Also, felt that robotics minor didnt have a structure along with uncertainty in the basket courses.
Also wanted to explore controls from a more theoretical pov
Also, the first 3 courses kinda build you from scratch in control engineering domain

### Ideal pathway to complete this minor by the 8th semester?
3 compulsory courses-2 in odd and one in even
Ideal way is to do all the compulsory ones in 3rd, 4th and 5th sem respectfully


### Pursued Courses
#### 3rd Semester: 
SC639

#### 4th Semester: 
SC202

#### 5th Semester: 
SC301

### Course Prerequisites?
MA105 and MA110, had some robotics experience through coursera courses and MRT- helped me connect the abstract math to real systems

### Was it difficult managing your minor alongside core Mech courses?
Not at all, the compulsory courses are very very chill. Difficuilty is not too much but if you dont go to lecture, you may find it difficuilt to get back on track. I dont think I balanced these minor courses well

### Were you able to connect this minor to your interests, projects, or career goals?
yes for sure, I got into a project under a prof related to syscon. Career goals wise, I think still a knowledge of software in robotics is necessary to become a good control engineer

### Any specific courses in your minor that stood out (positive or negative)?
SC 202 was great, but its content is very similar to ME319, so some might think that this is a waste of time

### Tips for juniors: 
first two courses wont be that related to controls ---but they are compulsory for the minor.
They can start any course but have to make sure to complete the 33 compulsory ones

### Would you recommend doing a minor in general? Why or why not? 
I will recommend taking the minor for sure if the first 2 course compulsion is removed. Other than that, it depends on your interest.