---
layout: post
title: "CS419 - Introduction to Machine Learning"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, artificial intelligence / machine learning, CS]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/CS419.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Abir De

#### Semester
Spring '20

#### Course Difficulty
Moderate

#### Time Commitment Required
Moderate

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Moderate

#### Attendance Policy
No mandatory attendance

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites but basic knowledge of Machine learning, Probability, Linear algebra is helpful

#### Evaluation Scheme
2 assignments only one was compulsory bonus marks for attempting both(assignments comprised 15% of the weightage), Midsem(25%), Endsem(35%),  Project(25%).

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The topics covered in this course are Supervised Learning Methods like Decision Trees, Generative Classifiers like Naïve Bayes, Support Vector Machines, Logistic classifiers, Neural Networks and Unsupervised Learning Methods like K-means clustering, etc.

#### Teaching Style
The method of instruction was online. There is a scope of improvement in terms of content delivery. Content was not well organized in my opinion but prof was open to any suggestion or changes for the improvement of content. The course is more inclined towards theoretical and the mathematical  side of machine learning and requires one to be familiar with concepts from probability and linear algebra.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
There were two assignments in the course which provided a good learning curve in terms of application of ML concepts real dataset. Both the assignments were programming based. Having familiarity with Python and NumPy will be beneficial.   
Students had to do a course project in groups of 2 to 4. They could choose the topic from the list of given topics or could come with their own topic.  


#### Feedback on Exams
Midsem and Endsem included questions based on math's for various problems and were moderately easy. Some of the problems involved the concepts directly from the lectures. 

#### Motivation for taking this course
Having done some online courses in ML which I liked made me interested in taking up this course.

#### Course Importance
Machine Learning is the name of the game in all aspects, be it business analytics or scientific research, this course can give you the right kick in that direction although there is a lot to learn in this field.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Strongly recommend

#### When to take this course?
I took this course in my 4th semester as a minor course

#### References Used
https://abir-de.github.io/cs419_2020.html

*CS 419 Review By:* Arpit Tiwari