---
layout: post
title: "EE321 - Power Electronics"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/EE321.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Sandeep Anand

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
The course is a bit on the tougher side .The problems asked in the exams weren't easy and required a very strong grip of concepts and were usually difficult . All the exams conducted were open book. 

#### Time Commitment Required
The time commitment required for this course is a little high. The pre-recorded lectures required 2-3 hours weekly. The assignments had 6-8 problems and required high time commitment. Submission for these assignments wasn't required.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
The grading was strict. The average marks for the entire course after endsem was 26.86/100. No AA was awarded. Passing this course required consistent efforts.  
1 AB, 3 BBs, 4 BCs, 3 CCs, 2 CDs, 4 DDs and 6 FRs were awarded in this course. 

#### Attendance Policy
There was no attendance policy in this course (it was because of the relaxation in the attendance policy during the online semester).

#### Pre-requisites
EE101 is a pre-requisite for this course. Only students who had done EE101 earlier were allowed to continue this course.

#### Evaluation Scheme
Mini-Quizzes - 30 % (best 3 out of 4 quizzes)         
Mid Sem. - 30 %  
End Sem. - 40 %     

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The course covers the fundamentals of power electronics.  
Power adapter, Power semiconductor devices : Structure, operating characteristics and working of power diodes, MOSFETs, thyristors, GTOs, IGBTs, DC-DC Buck converter, DC-DC Boost Converter, Switch Realization, Flyback converter, Diode rectifier, Thyristor rectifier, Active rectifiers, Single phase Modulation, Single phase voltage source converter, Three-phase voltage source converter,  DC/AC  inverters, AC/DC converters.

#### Teaching Style
Pre-recorded lectures were already posted on youtube and a given set of lectures were supposed to be watched each week. Assignments were given almost every week and problems were discussed in interaction sessions which were conducted on MS Teams. Breakout sessions were conducted on Wednesday to clarify doubts from TAs, and interaction sessions were conducted on Friday to clarify doubts, get additional information, etc. The interaction sessions were mandatory to attend.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Good difficulty. Highly recommended to attempt assignment problems before exams.

#### Feedback on Exams
One question was given in each quiz which was usually difficult. The midsem was of moderate difficulty. The endsem exam was very difficult.

#### References Used
Reference books suggested by the professor were:  
1. Power Electronics: Converter, Applications & Design, 3rd Edition, Mohan, Undeland and Riobbins, Wiley  
2. Power Electronics, M.H. Rashid, Prentice Hall of India, 1994.  
3. Fundamental of Power Electronics, 2nd Edition, Erickson and Maksimovic, Springer  
4. Power Electronics, Daniel W Hart, McGraw-Hill

*Review By:* Leena Chaudhari