---
layout: post
title: "EE659 - A First Course in Optimization"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/EE659.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Soman S.A.

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Easy-Moderate  
Since the course is an intro to optimization techniques, the concepts involved are fairly easy to grasp. However, the topics involved can be used to formulate a wide variety of problems so the exams/assignments may include a few tricky problems.

#### Time Commitment Required
On the lower side  
Course just had 1 assignment and an endsem. Can be managed by starting a few days before the deadline/exam  


#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Available on ASC

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance  
All lectures are uploaded on youtube

#### Pre-requisites
No prereqs, its an intro course

#### Evaluation Scheme
1 Assignment of 20%  
Endsem of 80%

#### Topics Covered in the Course
1. Introduction: Basic definition, problem formulation and illustrative examples. Existence of minimum, Weierstrass's Theorem, Necessary conditions for unconstrained minimization, Sufficiency conditions for unconstrained minimization.   
2. Convex Analysis: convex sets, closest point theorem, Theorem of alternatives, Farka's lemma, Gordan's theorem, convex functions, minima and maxima of convex functions, generalizations.   
3. Linear programming: Motivation, formulation, optimality conditions, simplex method, dual formulation and optimality conditions.   
4. Constrained minimization: role of constraints, linear and non-linear constraints, equality and inequality constraints, optimality conditions, Fritz John optimality conditions, Karush Kuhn Tucker optimality conditions, necessary conditions and sufficiency conditions.   
5. Application of optimization theory: Application to networks and economics.   
6. Quadratic programming: formulation, optimality conditions and algorithms, applications. 7. Algorithms for unconstrained minimization: Univariate Line search methods, Multidimensional search methods, steepest descent, Newton's, Quasi newton and trust region approaches, method of conjugate directions, CG method.

#### Teaching Style
All lectures available on youtube  
Teaching style is easy to understand and pace is easy to follow

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Practice problems are given in each lecture  
Most of the assignment questions can be solved fairly easily after watching the lectures but there are a few tricky questions which will take significant amount of time to solve.

#### Feedback on Exams
Most of the exam questions are quite easy, but there are a few tricky problems which will require good understanding of the concepts.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Optimization techniques are relevant to all engineering fields, so the skills taken from the course would come in handy in the future.

#### Course Importance
Optimization techniques are relevant to all engineering fields, so the skills taken from the course would come in handy in the future.

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
7/10

#### When to take this course?
5th sem  
Can be taken in any sem

#### Going Forward
After taking this course, advanced courses on optimization techniques would be much easier to grasp. There are quite a few such courses offered by the EE and Syscon depts

*Review By:* Nandagopal Vidhu