---
layout: post
title: "EE679 - Speech Processing"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/EE679.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Preeti Rao

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
You will have to watch all the lectures properly to understand the course content. Otherwise it will be quite difficult to cope up.

#### Time Commitment Required
5 hours on a weekly basis including class hours

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Moderate grading statistics

#### Attendance Policy
Not compulsory attendance in online semester

#### Pre-requisites
Knowledge of signals (EE 210) and Probability (EE 325) will be required

#### Evaluation Scheme
Weekly Moodle Quizzes - 10 %  
3 assignments or 2 assignments + 1 paper review - 25 %  
Midsem - 20 %  
Endsem - 45 %

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Speech production and acoustic phonetics, speech perception;   
Speech analysis: time and frequency domain techniques for pitch and formant estimation, cepstral and LPC analysis;   
Speech synthesis: articulatory, formant, and LPC synthesis, voice response and text-to-speech systems;   
Applications: data compression, vocoders, speech enhancement, speech recognition, speaker recognition, aids for the speech and hearing impairments.

#### Teaching Style
2 to 3 hours of recorded lectures + weekly live interaction of 1.5 hour

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
All the three assignments were coding assignments (Python on Jupyter or Colab) of moderate difficulty. We had to implement a few models taught in lectures.

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams were purely conceptual, hence watching lectures is important.

#### When to take this course?
Not recommended in second year, the course can be done in 3rd year if the pre-requisites have been covered. 7th or 9th semester is ideal for this course.

#### References Used
Ma'am provides reference papers for understanding / extra learning. Apart from that, no book that covers everything ma'am teaches, hence we have to rely on lectures and lecture notes.

#### Interesting relevant links
https://bit.ly/33IpgoQ

*Review By:* Avyakta Wrat