---
layout: post
title: "CL444 - Safety in Chemical Industry"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/CL444.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Sandip Roy, Rahul Nabar

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Moderately difficult, slightly in easier side if attended regularly.

#### Time Commitment Required
6 hours per week is enough except for project. Project deadline was after the endsem, can be managed.

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Good grading. Moderately generous.

#### Attendance Policy
No policy. But takes surprise quizzes if attendance is too low. Took 2 consecative tests just to increase the attendance.

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisite. Chemical industry knowledge is an advantage.

#### Evaluation Scheme
Quizzes- 15 Project-18 Endsem- 42 Midsem- 25

#### Topics Covered in the Course
The safety and design in the chemical industry and its importance. Some of the basics of the mathematics done as well as the risk associated with it.

#### Teaching Style
Lectures in regular slots. Gave a book written by him as the reference. Mostly the questions were from the book material.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Project are of two types. The one I got was more of a webapp making project for safety which gives out an output for inputs given. The other type was literature review type project. No assignments. Tutorial taken as quizzes.

#### Feedback on Exams
They were mostly past year questions except for midsem and endsem. The level was moderate.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Good grading, peers in the chemical department.

#### Going Forward
Can further develop the project you are working on with the professor.

#### References Used
The book written by him and the slides for Prof Rahul's part. 

#### Other Remarks
Prof Rahul's part is of 2 to 3 lectures and 1 quiz is taken for it. It is not asked in endsem.

*Review By:* Prasanna Vivek Telawane