---
layout: post
title: "PS619 - Health Policy: An Introduction"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/PS619.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Arnab Jana

#### Semester
Autumn' 20

#### Course Difficulty
Very easy course, based on common sense but some things have to be memorised. They have some projects that require doing some research to get datasets and make reports, rest exams are pretty chill

#### Time Commitment Required
10 hours total except group project work

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
We had 2 projects, some assignments and midsem, endsem. Grading is very generous.  
Out of 41 - 15 (AA), 18(AB), 7 (BB), 1 (FR)

#### Attendance Policy
No attendance mandatory

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Evaluation Scheme
Grading based on 2 projects, assignments (10 min work per assignment), and midsem, endsem.

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Basics about Health policy: Various laws in the health domain and brief history about policy decisions. Don't quite remember since it had very little relevance with the exam questions.

#### Teaching Style
Very boring. A visiting prof will teach for the entire semester, going through text filled slides, 100 per lecture.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Easy assignments. Project work required forming teams of 4-6, doing research and gathering data on a topic, making reports and presentation in front of the class. Very little relevance with the content of the classes

#### Feedback on Exams
Common sense questions, pretty easy. Some questions required mugging through the slides, ex - laws and policy decisions in history

#### Motivation for taking this course
Grades with minimal effort, and counts as core for IDDDP in KCDH

#### Other Remarks
Can be taken for minor and IDDDP in KCDH

*Review By:* Anuj Agrawal