---
layout: post
title: "DH302 - Introduction to Public Health Informatics"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/DH302.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. Ganesh Ramakrishnan

#### Semester
Autumn' 20

#### Course Difficulty
The course is pretty easy, with basic biological terminologies and foundational IT topics in the syllabus. The prof. took this course first time so he collectively decided the syllabus with the class.  
The whole class can be divided into 2 topics -  
Biology - nomenclature, basic definitions, etc.  
IT - Definitions of OS, hardware (mouse, keyboards), with some parts of data analytics (of survey data)

#### Time Commitment Required
Very less. All topics were pretty intuitive and exams could be given based on common knowledge

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Had codetantra quizzes, midsem project presentation (based on any topic of choice), midsem and endsem exams  
Out of 20 - 4 (AA), 11 (AB), 4 (BB), 1 (CC)

#### Attendance Policy
Chill attendance policy

#### Pre-requisites
None

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Nomenclature of biological terms  
Basics of IT (OS, hardware, memory, computer infrastructure)  
Little bit of Health Informatics, data analytics, health policy and medico-legal topics

#### Teaching Style
Online - Slides with annotation.  
Prof Ganesh teaches very well, is enthusiastic about whatever he teaches. Pretty flexible with changing logistics if majority agrees

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Pretty easy, almost everybody got good grades with little effort

#### Feedback on Exams
Easy and based on common sense. Might be boring for people who hate to memorise some stuff

#### Motivation for taking this course
I was an IDDDP student and this is the core course if you want to do minor or IDDDP. But overall a chill course with easy syllabus and good grades. Might change drastically since this was the first time this course was offered.

#### Course Importance
Core for minor and IDDDP students

*Review By:* Anuj Agrawal