---
layout: post
title: "ENT606 - Basic Proof of Concept"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ENT606.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Kums P Kumaresan

#### Semester
Autumn '21

#### Course Difficulty
Extremely easy

#### Time Commitment Required
Negligible, outside attending lectures

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Extremely lenient, anyone who submitted all the assignments (regardless of the quality) and attended over 80% of the classes received an AA grade.  
147 AAs out of 232

#### Attendance Policy
Compulsory, attendance directly reflected in the grade and was strictly monitored

#### Pre-requisites
None whatsoever

#### Evaluation Scheme
Fairly arbitrary, but the components were as follows (in no specific order): Attendance, 4 in-sem submissions and 1 final submission

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Understanding design principles and designing/building a few innovative prototypes  
Presentation skills

#### Teaching Style
Classes were highly interactive, wherein the professor discussed the problem statements, offered feedback on submissions or showed random videos. A lot of activity happened (including submissions and announcements) exclusively on the official WhatsApp group of the course, so ensure you're on there.

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments for this iteration of the course were all to be submitted in .ppt format, in the given template.  
1) Introduce yourself to the world in full colour, bring an order to some stationery items, click a candid picture of your study table  
2) Draw a single-line minimalistic sketch, explain 5 design principles out of 12 given in one slide each  
3) Make an innovative product using a toilet plunger  
4) Diya (Diwali lamp) design using household items  
The final submission was to make a video and a presentation showcasing the above 4 assignments, as well as summarising the overall course experience

#### Feedback on Exams
None

#### Motivation for taking this course
Chill grade, as well as the unconventional content. Throwback to arts-and-crafts in school :-p

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
One of the popular 'chill courses', so doesn't specifically need my recommendation. Make sure you reg in time since there is a cap on the maximum size of the class.

#### When to take this course?
7th (placement) semester. Take it whenever you want an easy grade with minimal effort.

#### Going Forward
ENT608 - same prof, effectively the same course under a different name

*Review By:* Aditya Iyengar