---
layout: post
title: "ENT201 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship"
categories: [insti electives, minors, alc, entrepreneurship, ENT]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Insti/ENT201.jpg
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Anand T Kusre(Course Instructor), Milind D Atrey, Rajen Jaswa

#### Semester
Autumn 2019-20

#### Course Difficulty
Easy

#### Time Commitment Required
1.5-2 hours/week (apart from classes)

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Absolute grading normalised according to highest score  
Statistics are normal and not-so-lenient 

#### Attendance Policy
80% attendance was compulsory and counts towards grades. DX was also given to students with very low attendance.

#### Pre-requisites
No prerequisites

#### Evaluation Scheme
3-4 easy case study based assignments  
1 final group presentation  
Midsem with basic definitions and focused on BMC  
Endsem on application based based questions and case-studies

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Real life case studies  
An Entrepreneur's mindset  
Understanding a Business Model Canvas and how to make one in detail  
Basics of Intellectual Property  
Basics of Business Communications: Pitching and Presentation  
Guest lectures by established Entrepreneurs

#### Teaching Style
Interactive classes, case study based approach, pace may be slow but every aspect is covered and discussed

#### Tutorials/Assignments/Projects
Assignments are easy and stimulate creative thinking  
Group project/presentation gives exposure to basics of entrepreneurship practically 

#### Feedback on Exams
Exams are moderately easy. Case study, definitions and BMC cover most of them.

#### Motivation for taking this course
Passion for entrepreneurship

#### Course Importance
A good course to get to know the prerequisites before embarking on your startup journey

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
If you have a thing for starting a new venture of yours soon or in near future, this course would be a good initial guide

#### When to take this course?
I am passionate about entrepreneurship and want to complete my minor in the same. 3rd semester is ideal because the course does not require a lot of time commitment and is a good time to explore this field as the course is introductory.

#### References Used
Slides and classroom discussions are enough

*ENT 201 Review By:* Prasann Jaiswal