---
layout: post
title: "ET607 - Educational Game Design"
categories: [core courses]
tags: [courses]
image: assets/images/Course Reviews/Electives/ET607.png
featured: false
hidden: false
---

#### Instructor
Prof. M. Sasikumar

#### Semester
Autumn '20

#### Course Difficulty
Easy

#### Time Commitment Required
2-3 hours a week

#### Grading Policy and Statistics
Generous. Majority received good Grades (8-10)

#### Attendance Policy
Not- Mandatory: Class based activities

#### Pre-requisites
ET 601: Intro to Ed. Tech.   
Though I was able to register without completing ET 601, and professor allowed me to continue based on my SOP.  
Course is supposedly for ET department PGs. 

#### Evaluation Scheme
Assignments (x2)   
EndSem (x1)   
Project (x1)

#### Topics Covered in the Course
Course is primarily based on learning by doing model  
- Reviewing existing Ed. Tech games.  
- Discussion on the Key Performance Indicators   
- Discussing theories on gamification and cognitive engagement  
- Individual Domain Selection for Project

#### Teaching Style
One class in a week   
Rest of the time for working on assignments

#### Feedback on Exams
EndSem -   
Easy   
Written/Digital-Doc submission  
theory + Application

#### Motivation for taking this course
Developing gaming concept while working for Team SHUNYA

#### Course Highlights
- Reviewed Plantville game to grasp the effectiveness of a serious game in training for industrial plant management  
- Designed a game for familiarizing students with the fundamentals of constructing sustainable net-positive housing   
- Involved in the development of domain world, game world, and the pedagogy to address the T-L* problem

#### Course Importance
- Easy and New flavor while completing IE credit requirement     
- Opens opportunity to seek profession in Ed. Tech Startups

#### How strongly would I recommend this course?
Very Likely

*Review By:* Md. Saif Ansari